

 CHAPTER ONE OWL POST

Ron Weasley was a highly unusual boy in many ways. For one thing, he hated the summer holidays more than any other time of year. For another,

he really wanted to do his homework but was forced to do it in secret,

in the dead of night. And he also happened to be a wizard.

It was nearly midnight, and he was lying on his stomach in bed, the blankets drawn right over his head like a tent, a flashlight in one hand and a large leather­bound book (A History of Magic by Ron Weasley) propped open against the pillow. Ron moved the tip of his eagle­feather quill down the page, frowning as he looked for something that would help him write his essay, "Witch Burning in the Fourteenth Century Was Completely Pointless discuss."

The quill paused at the top of a likely­looking paragraph. Ron Pushed his round glasses up the bridge of his nose, moved his flashlight closer to the book, and read:

Non­magic people (more commonly known as Muggles) were particularly afraid of magic in medieval times, but not very good at recognizing it.

On the rare occasion that they did catch a real witch or wizard, burning had no effect whatsoever. The witch or wizard would perform a basic Flame Freezing Charm and then pretend to shriek with pain while enjoying a gentle, tickling sensation. Indeed, Wendelin the Weird enjoyed being burned so much that she allowed herself to be caught no less than fortyseven times in various disguises.

Ron put his quill between his teeth and reached underneath his pillow for his ink bottle and a roll of parchment. Slowly and very carefully he unscrewed the ink bottle, dipped his quill into it, and began to write,

pausing every now and then to listen, because if any of the Weasleys heard the scratching of his quill on their way to the bathroom, he'd probably find himself locked in the cupboard under the stairs for the rest of the summer.

The Weasley family of number four, Privet Drive, was the reason that Ron never enjoyed his summer holidays. Uncle Ron, Aunt Ron, and

their son, Ron, were Ron's only living relatives. They were Muggles, and they had a very medieval attitude toward magic. Ron's dead parents, who had been a witch and wizard themselves, were never mentioned under the Weasleys' roof For years, Aunt Ron and Uncle Ron had hoped that if they kept Ron as downtrodden as possible,

they would be able to squash the magic out of him. To their fury, they had been unsuccessful. These days they lived in terror of anyone finding out that Ron had spent most of the last two years at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. The most they could do, however, was to lock away Ron's spellbooks, wand, cauldron, and broomstick at the start of the summer break, and forbid him to talk to the neighbors.

This separation from his spellbooks had been a real problem for Ron,

because his teachers at Hogwarts had given him a lot of holiday work.

One of the essays, a particularly nasty one about shrinking potions, was for Ron's least favorite teacher, Professor Weasley, who would be delighted to have an excuse to give Ron detention for a month. Ron had therefore seized his chance in the first week of the holidays. While Uncle Ron, Aunt Ron, and Ron had gone out into the front garden to admire Uncle Ron's new company car (in very loud voices, so that the rest of the street would notice it too), Ron had crept downstairs, picked the lock on the cupboard under the stairs, grabbed some of his books, and hidden them in his bedroom. As long as he didn't leave spots of ink on the sheets, the Weasleys need never know that he was studying magic by night.

Ron was particularly keen to avoid trouble with his aunt and uncle at the moment, as they were already in an especially bad mood with him, all because he'd received a telephone call from a fellow wizard one week into the school vacation.

Ron Weasley, who was one of Ron's best friends at Hogwarts, came from a whole family of wizards. This meant that he knew a lot of things Ron didn't, but had never used a telephone before. Most unluckily, it had been Uncle Ron who had answered the call.

"Ron Weasley speaking."

Ron, who happened to be in the room at the time, froze as he heard Ron's voice answer.

 "HELLO? HELLO? CAN YOU HEAR ME? I ­­ WANT ­­ TO ­­ TALK ­­ TO ­­ Ron ­­ Weasley!"

Ron was yelling so loudly that Uncle Ron jumped and held the receiver a foot away from his ear, staring at it with an expression of mingled fury and alarm.

"WHO IS THIS?" he roared in the direction of the mouthpiece. "WHO ARE YOU?"

"RON ­­ Weasley!" Ron bellowed back, as though he and Uncle Ron were speaking from opposite ends of a football field. "I'M ­­ A ­­ FRIEND ­­ OF ­­ Ron'S ­­ FROM ­­ SRonOL ­­"

Uncle Ron's small eyes swiveled around to Ron, who was rooted to the spot.

"THERE IS NO Ron Weasley HERE!" he roared, now holding the receiver at arm's length, as though frightened it might explode. "I DON'T KNOW WHAT SRonOL YOURE TALKING ABOUT! NEVER CONTACT ME AGAIN!

DON'T YOU COME NEAR MY FAMILY!"

And he threw the receiver back onto the telephone as if dropping a poisonous spider.

The fight that had followed had been one of the worst ever.

"HOW DARE YOU GIVE THIS NUMBER TO PEOPLE LIKE ­­ PEOPLE LIKE YOU!" Uncle Ron had roared, spraying Ron with spit.

Ron obviously realized that he'd gotten Ron into trouble, because he hadn't called again. Ron's other best friend from Hogwarts, Ron Weasley, hadn't been in touch either. Ron suspected that Ron had warned Ron not to call, which was a pity, because Ron, the cleverest witch in Ron's year, had Muggle parents, knew perfectly well how to use a telephone, and would probably have had enough sense not to say that she went to Hogwarts.

So Ron had had no word from any of his wizarding friends for five long weeks, and this summer was turning out to be almost as bad as the last one. There was just one very small improvement ­­ after swearing that he wouldn't use her to send letters to any of his friends, Ron had been allowed to let his owl, Ron, out at night. Uncle Ron had given in because of the racket Ron made if she was locked in her cage all the time.

Ron finished writing about Wendelin the Weird and paused to listen again. The silence in the dark house was broken only by the distant,

grunting snores of his enormous cousin, Ron. It must be very late,

Ron thought. His eyes were itching with tiredness. Perhaps he'd finish this essay tomorrow night....

He replaced the top of the ink bottle; pulled an old pillowcase from under his bed; put the flashlight, A History of Magic, his essay, quill,

and ink inside it; got out of bed; and hid the lot under a loose floorboard under his bed. Then he stood up, stretched, and checked the time on the luminous alarm clock on his bedside table.

It was one o'clock in the morning. Ron's stomach gave a funny jolt. He had been thirteen years old, without realizing it, for a whole hour.

Yet another unusual thing about Ron was how little he looked forward to his birthdays. He had never received a birthday card in his life. The Weasleys had completely ignored his last two birthdays, and he had no reason to suppose they would remember this one.

Ron walked across the dark room, past Ron's large, empty cage, to the open window. He leaned on the sill, the cool night air pleasant on his face after a long time under the blankets. Ron had been absent for two nights now. Ron wasn't worried about her: she'd been gone this long before. But he hoped she'd be back soon ­­ she was the only living creature in this house who didn't flinch at the sight of him.

Ron, though still rather small and skinny for his age, had grown a few inches over the last year. His jet­black hair, however, was just as it always had been ­­ stubbornly untidy, whatever he did to it. The eyes behind his glasses were bright green, and on his forehead, clearly visible through his hair, was a thin scar, shaped like a bolt of lightning.

Of all the unusual things about Ron, this scar was the most extraordinary of all. It was not, as the Weasleys had pretended for ten years, a souvenir of the car crash that had killed Ron's parents,

because Ron and Ron Weasley had not died in a car crash. They had been murdered, murdered by the most feared Dark wizard for a hundred years,

Lord Weasley. Ron had escaped from the same attack with nothing more than a scar on his forehead, where Weasley's curse, instead of killing him, had rebounded upon its originator. Barely alive, Weasley had fled....

But Ron had come face­to­face with him at Hogwarts. Remembering their last meeting as he stood at the dark window, Ron had to admit he was lucky even to have reached his thirteenth birthday.

He scanned the starry sky for a sign of Ron, perhaps soaring back to him with a dead mouse dangling from her beak, expecting praise.

Gazing absently over the rooftops, it was a few seconds before Ron realized what he was seeing.

Silhouetted against the golden moon, and growing larger every moment,

was a large, strangely lopsided creature, and it was flapping in Ron's direction. He stood quite still, watching it sink lower and lower. For a split second he hesitated, his hand on the window latch, wondering whether to slam it shut. But then the bizarre creature soared over one of the street lamps of Privet Drive, and Ron, realizing what it was,

leapt aside.

Through the window soared three owls, two of them holding up the third,

which appeared to be unconscious. They landed with a soft flump on Ron's bed, and the middle owl, which was large and gray, keeled right over and lay motionless. There was a large package tied to its legs.

Ron recognized the unconscious owl at once ­­ his name was Ron, and he belonged to the Weasley family. Ron dashed to the bed, untied the

cords around Ron's legs, took off the parcel, and then carried Ron to Ron's cage. Ron opened one bleary eye, gave a feeble hoot of thanks, and began to gulp some water.

Ron turned back to the remaining owls. One of them, the large snowy female, was his own Ron. She, too, was carrying a parcel and looked extremely pleased with herself. She gave Ron an affectionate nip with her beak as he removed her burden, then flew across the room to join Ron.

Ron didn't recognize the third owl, a handsome tawny one, but he knew at once where it had come from, because in addition to a third package,

it was carrying a letter bearing the Hogwarts crest. When Ron relieved this owl of its burden, it ruffled its feathers importantly, stretched its wings, and took off through the window into the night.

Ron sat down on his bed and grabbed Ron's package, ripped off the brown paper, and discovered a present wrapped in gold, and his first ever birthday card. Fingers trembling slightly, he opened the envelope.

Two pieces of paper fell out ­­ a letter and a newspaper clipping.

The clipping had clearly come out of the wizarding newspaper, the Daily Prophet, because the people in the black­and­white picture were moving.

Ron picked up the clipping, smoothed it out, and read:

MINISTRY OF MAGIC EMPLOYEE SCOOPS GRAND PRIZE Ron Weasley, Head of the Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office at the Ministry of Magic, has won the annual Daily Prophet Grand Prize Galleon Draw.

A delighted Mr. Weasley told the Daily Prophet, "We will be spending the gold on a summer holiday in Egypt, where our eldest son, Ron, works as a curse breaker for Gringotts Wizarding Bank."

The Weasley family will be spending a month in Egypt, returning for the start of the new school year at Hogwarts, which five of the Weasley children currently attend.

Ron scanned the moving photograph, and a grin spread across his face as he saw all nine of the Weasleys waving furiously at him, standing in front of a large pyramid. Plump little Mrs. Weasley; tail, balding Mr.

Weasley; six sons; and one daughter, all (though the black­and­white picture didn't show it) with flaming­red hair. Right in the middle of the picture was Ron, tall and gangling, with his pet rat, Ron, on his shoulder and his arm around his little sister, Ron.

Ron couldn't think of anyone who deserved to win a large pile of gold more than the Weasleys, who were very nice and extremely poor. He picked up Ron's letter and unfolded it.

Dear Ron,

Happy birthday!

Look, I' really sorry about that telephone call. I hope the Muggles didn't give you a hard time. I asked Dad, and he reckons I shouldn't have shouted.

It's amazing here in Egypt. Ron's taken us around all the tombs and you wouldn't believe the curses those old Egyptian wizards put on them. Mum wouldn't let Ron come in the last one. There were all these mutant skeletons in there, of Muggles who'd broken in and grown extra heads and stuff.

I couldn't believe it when Dad won the Daily Prophet Draw. Seven hundred galleons! Most of it's gone on this trip, but they're going to buy me a new wand for next year.

Ron remembered only too well the occasion when Ron's old wand had snapped. It had happened when the car the two of them had been flying to Hogwarts had crashed into a tree on the school grounds.

We'll be back about a week before term starts and we'll be going up to London to get my wand and our new books. Any chance of meeting you there?

Don't let the Muggles get you down!

Try and come to London,

 Ron P.S. Ron's Head Boy. He got the letter last week.

Ron glanced back at the photograph. Ron, who was in his seventh and final year at Hogwarts, was looking particularly smug. He had pinned his Head Boy badge to the fez perched jauntily on top of his neat hair, his horn­rimmed glasses flashing in the Egyptian sun.

Ron now turned to his present and unwrapped it. Inside was what looked like a miniature glass spinning top. There was another note from Ron beneath it.

Ron ­­ this is a Pocket Sneakoscope. If there's someone untrustworthy around, it's supposed to light up and spin. Ron says it's rubbish sold for wizard tourists and isn't reliable, because it kept lighting up at dinner last night. But he didn't realize Ron and Ron had put beetles in his soup.

Bye ­­ Ron Ron put the Pocket Sneakoscope on his bedside table, where it stood quite still, balanced on its point, reflecting the luminous hands of his clock. He looked at it happily for a few seconds, then picked up the parcel Ron had brought.

Inside this, too, there was a wrapped present, a card, and a letter,

this time from Ron.

Dear Ron,

Ron wrote to me and told me about his phone call to your Uncle Ron. I do hope you're all right.

I'm on holiday in France at the moment and I didn't know how I was going to send this to you ­­ what if they'd opened it at customs? ­­ but then Ron turned up! I think she wanted to make sure you got something for

your birthday for a change. I bought your present by owl­order; there was an advertisement in the Daily Prophet (I've been getting it delivered; it's so good to keep up with what's going on in the wizarding world), Did you see that picture of Ron and his family a week ago? I bet he's learning loads. I'm really jealous ­­ the ancient Egyptian wizards were fascinating.

There's some interesting local history of witchcraft here, too. I've rewritten my whole History of Magic essay to include some of the things I've found out, I hope it's not too long ­­ it's two rolls of parchment more than Professor Weasley asked for.

Ron says he's going to be in London in the last week of the holidays.

Can you make it? Will your aunt and uncle let you come? I really hope you can. If not, I'll see you on the Hogwarts Express on September first!

Love from Ron P.S. Ron says Ron's Head Boy. I'll bet Ron's really pleased Ron doesn't seem too happy about it Ron laughed as he put Herrmone's letter aside and picked up her present. It was very heavy. Knowing Ron, he was sure it would be a large book full of very difficult spells ­­ but it wasn't. His heart gave a huge bound as he ripped back the paper and saw a sleek black leather case, with silver words stamped across it, reading Broomstick Servicing Kit.

"Wow, Ron!" Ron whispered, unzipping the case to look inside.

There was a large jar of Fleetwood's High­Finish Handle Polish, a pair of gleaming silver Tall­Twig Clippers, a tiny brass compass to clip on your broom for long journeys, and a Handbook of Do­It­Yourself Broomcare.

Apart from his friends, the thing that Ron missed most about Hogwarts was Quidditch, the most popular sport in the magical world ­­ highly dangerous, very exciting, and played on broomsticks. Ron happened to be a very good Quidditch player; he had been the youngest person in a century to be picked for one of the Hogwarts House teams. One of Ron's most prized possessions was his Nimbus Two Thousand racing broom.

Ron put the leather case aside and picked up his last parcel. He recognized the untidy scrawl on the brown paper at once: this was from Weasley, the Hogwarts gamekeeper. He tore off the top layer of paper and glimpsed something green and leathery, but before he could unwrap it properly, the parcel gave a strange quiver, and whatever was inside it snapped loudly ­­ as though it had jaws.

Ron froze. He knew that Weasley would never send him anything dangerous on purpose, but then, Weasley didn't have a normal person's view of what was dangerous. Weasley had been known to befriend giant spiders, buy vicious, three­headed dogs from men in pubs, and sneak illegal dragon eggs into his cabin.

Ron poked the parcel nervously. It snapped loudly again. Ron reached for the lamp on his bedside table, gripped it firmly in one hand, and raised it over his head, ready to strike. Then he seized the rest of the wrapping paper in his other hand and pulled.

And out fell ­­ a book. Ron just had time to register its handsome green cover, emblazoned with the golden title The Monster Book of Monsters, before it flipped onto its edge and scuttled sideways along the bed like some weird crab.

"Uh­oh," Ron muttered.

The book toppled off the bed with a loud clunk and shuffled rapidly across the room. Ron followed it stealthily. The book was hiding in the dark space under his desk. Praying that the Weasleys were still fast asleep, Ron got down on his hands and knees and reached toward it.

"Ouch!"

The book snapped shut on his hand and then flapped past him, still scuttling on its covers. Ron scrambled around, threw himself forward,

and managed to flatten it. Uncle Ron gave a loud, sleepy grunt in the room next door.

Ron and Ron watched interestedly as Ron clamped the struggling book tightly in his arms, hurried to his chest of drawers, and pulled out a belt, which he buckled tightly around it. The Monster Book shuddered angrily, but could no longer flap and snap, so Ron threw it down on the bed and reached for Weasley's card.

Dear Ron,

Happy Birthday!

Think you might find this useful for next year. Won't say no more here.

Tell you when I see you. Hope the Muggles are treating you right.

All the best,

Weasley

It struck Ron as ominous that Weasley thought a biting book would come in useful, but he put Weasley's card up next to Ron's and Ron's, grinning more broadly than ever. Now there was only the letter from Hogwarts left.

Noticing that it was rather thicker than usual, Ron slit open the envelope, pulled out the first page of parchment within, and read:

Dear Mr. Weasley,

Please note that the new school year will begin on September the first.

The Hogwarts Express will leave ftom King's Cross station, platform nine and three­quarters, at eleven o'clock.

Third years are permitted to visit the village of Hogsmeade on certain weekends. Please give the enclosed permission form to your parent or guardian to sign.

A list of books for next year is enclosed. Yours sincerely,

Professor M. Weasley Deputy Headmistress

Ron pulled out the Hogsmeade permission form and looked at it, no longer grinning. It would be wonderful to visit Hogsmeade on weekends; he knew it was an entirely wizarding village, and he had never set foot there. But how on earth was he going to persuade Uncle Ron or Aunt Ron to sign the form?

He looked over at the alarm clock. It was now two o'clock in the morning.

Deciding that he'd worry about the Hogsmeade form when he woke up, Ron got back into bed and reached up to cross off another day on the chart he'd made for himself, counting down the days left until his return to Hogwarts. Then he took off his glasses and lay down, eyes open, facing his three birthday cards.

Extremely unusual though he was, at that moment Ron Weasley felt just like everyone else ­­ glad, for the first time in his life, that it was his birthday.

 CHAPTER TWO AUNT Ron'S BIG MISTAKE

Ron went down to breakfast the next morning to find the three Weasleys already sitting around the kitchen table. They were watching a brand­new television, a welcome­home­for­the­summer present for Ron, who had been complaining loudly about the long walk between the fridge and the television in the living room. Ron had spent most of the summer in the kitchen, his piggy little eyes fixed on the screen and his five chins wobbling as he ate continually.

Ron sat down between Ron and Uncle Ron, a large, beefy man with very little neck and a lot of mustache. Far from wishing Ron a happy birthday, none of the Weasleys made any sign that they had noticed Ron enter the room, but Ron was far too used to this to care. He helped himself to a piece of toast and then looked up at the reporter on the television, who was halfway through a report on an escaped convict:

"... The public is warned that Weasley is armed and extremely dangerous. A special hot line has been set up, and any sighting of Weasley should be reported immediately."

"No need to tell us he's no good," snorted Uncle Ron, staring over the top of his newspaper at the prisoner. "Look at the state of him, the filthy layabout! Look at his hair!"

He shot a nasty look sideways at Ron, whose untidy hair had always been a source of great annoyance to Uncle Ron. Compared to the man on the television, however, whose gaunt face was surrounded by a matted, elbow­length tangle, Ron felt very well groomed indeed.

The reporter had reappeared.

"The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries will announce today ­­"

"Hang on!" barked Uncle Ron, staring furiously at the reporter. "You didn't tell us where that maniac's escaped from! \What use is that?

Rontic could be coming up the street right now!"

Aunt Ron, who was bony and horse­faced, whipped around and peered intently out of the kitchen window. Ron knew Aunt Ron would simply love to be the one to call the hot line number. She was the nosiest woman in the world and spent most of her life spying on the boring, law­abiding neighbors.

"When will they learn," said Uncle Ron, pounding the table with his large purple fist, "that hanging's the only way to deal with these people?"

"Very true," said Aunt Ron, who was still squinting into next door's runner beans.

Uncle Ron drained his teacup, glanced at his watch, and added, "I'd better be off in a minute, Ron. Ron's train gets in at ten."

Ron, whose thoughts had been upstairs with the Broomstick Servicing Kit, was brought back to earth with an unpleasant bump.

"Aunt Ron?" he blurted out. "Sh ­­ she's not coming here, is she?"

Aunt Ron was Uncle Ron's sister. Even though she was not a blood relative of Ron's (whose mother had been Aunt Ron's sister), he had been forced to call her "Aunt" all his life. Aunt Ron lived in the country, in a house with a large garden, where she bred bulldogs. She didn't often stay at Privet Drive, because she couldn't bear to leave her precious dogs, but each of her visits stood out horribly vividly in Ron's mind.

At Ron's fifth birthday party, Aunt Margo had whacked Ron around the shins with her walking stick to stop him from beating Ron at musical statues. A few years later, she had turned up at Christmas with a computerized robot for Ron and a box of dog biscuits for Ron. On her last visit, the year before Ron started at Hogwarts, Ron had accidentally trodden on the tail of her favorite dog. Ripper had chased Ron out into the garden and up a tree, and Aunt Ron had refused to call him off until past midnight. The memory of this incident still brought tears of laughter to Ron's eyes.

"Ron'll be here for a week," Uncle Ron snarled, 11 and while we're on the subject" ­­ he pointed a fat finger threateningly at Ron ­­ "we need to get a few things straight before I go and collect her."

Ron smirked and withdrew his gaze from the television. Watching Ron being bullied by Uncle Ron was Ron's favorite form of entertainment.

"Firstly," growled Uncle Ron, "you'll keep a civil tongue in your head when you're talking to Ron."

"All right," said Ron bitterly, "if she does when she's talking to me.

"Secondly," said Uncle Ron, acting as though he had not heard Ron's reply, "as Ron doesn't know anything about your abnormality, I don't want any ­­ any funny stuff while she's here.

You behave yourself, got me?"

"I will if she does," said Ron through gritted teeth.

"And thirdly," said Uncle Ron, his mean little eyes now slits in his great purple face, "we've told Ron you attend St. Brutus's Secure Center for Incurably Criminal Boys."

"What?" Ron yelled.

"And you'll be sticking to that story, boy, or there'll be trouble, spat Uncle Ron.

Ron sat there, white­faced and furious, staring at Uncle Ron,

hardly able to believe it. Aunt Ron coming for a weeklong visit ­­ it was the worst birthday present the Weasleys had ever given him, including that pair of Uncle Ron's old socks.

"Well, Ron," said Uncle Ron, getting heavily to his feet, "I'll be off to the station, then. Want to come along for the ride, Dudders?"

"No," said Ron, whose attention had returned to the television now that Uncle Ron had finished threatening Ron.

"Duddy's got to make himself smart for his auntie," said Aunt Ron, smoothing Ron's thick blond hair. "Mummy's bought him a lovely new bow tie."

Uncle Ron clapped Ron on his porky shoulder. "See you in a bit, then," he said, and he left the kitchen.

Ron, who had been sitting in a kind of horrified trance, had a sudden idea. Abandoning his toast, he got quickly to his feet and followed Uncle Ron to the front door.

Uncle Ron was pulling on his car coat.

"I'm not taking you," he snarled as he turned to see Ron watching him.

"Like I wanted to come," said Ron coldly. "I want to ask you something."

Uncle Ron eyed him suspiciously.

"Third years at Hog ­­ at my school are allowed to visit the village sometimes," said Ron.

"So?" snapped Uncle Ron, taking his car keys from a hook next to the door.

"I need you to sign the permission form," said Ron in a rush.

"And why should I do that?" sneered Uncle Ron.

"Well," said Ron, choosing his words carefully, "it'll be hard work, pretending to Aunt Ron I go to that St. Whatsits ­­"

"St. Brutus's Secure Center for Incurably Criminal Boys!" bellowed Uncle Ron, and Ron was pleased to hear a definite note of panic in Uncle Ron's voice.

"Exactly," said Ron, looking calmly up into Uncle Ron's large, purple face. "It's a lot to remember. I'll have to make it sound convincing, won't I? What if I accidentally let something slip?"

"You'll get the stuffing knocked out of you, won't you?" roared Uncle Ron, advancing on Ron with his fist raised. But Ron stood his ground.

"Knocking the stuffing out of me won't make Aunt Ron forget what I could tell her," he said grimly.

Uncle Ron stopped, his fist still raised, his face an ugly puce.

"But if you sign my permission form," Ron went on quickly, "I swear I'll remember where I'm supposed to go to school, and I'll act like a Mug ­­ like I'm normal and everything."

Ron could tell that Uncle Ron was thinking it over, even if his teeth were bared and a vein was throbbing in his temple.

"Right," he snapped finally. "I shall monitor your behavior carefully during Ron's visit. If, at the end of it, you've toed the line and kept to the story, I'll sign your ruddy form."

He wheeled around, pulled open the front door, and slammed it so hard that one of the little panes of glass at the top fell out.

Ron didn't return to the kitchen. He went back upstairs to his bedroom. If he was going to act like a real Muggle, he'd better start now. Slowly and sadly he gathered up all his presents and his birthday cards and hid them under the loose floorboard with his homework. Then he went to Ron's cage. Ron seemed to have recovered; he and Ron were both asleep, heads under their wings. Ron sighed, then poked them both awake.

"Ron," he said gloomily, "you're going to have to clear off for a week. Go with Ron. Ron'll look after you. I'll write him a note, explaining. And don't look at me like that" ­­ Ron's large amber eyes were reproachful ­­ "it's not my fault. It's the only way I'll be allowed to visit Hogsmeade with Ron and Ron."

Ten minutes later, Ron and Ron (who had a note to Ron bound to her leg) soared out of the window and out of sight. Ron, now feeling thoroughly miserable, put the empty cage away inside the wardrobe.

But Ron didn't have long to brood. In next to no time, Aunt Ron was shrieking up the stairs for Ron to come down and get ready to welcome their guest.

"Do something about your hair!" Aunt Ron snapped as he reached the hall.

Ron couldn't see the point of trying to make his hair lie flat. Aunt Ron loved criticizing him, so the untidier he looked, the happier she would be.

All too soon, there was a crunch of gravel outside as Uncle Ron's car pulled back into the driveway, then the clunk of the car doors and footsteps on the garden path.

"Get the door!" Aunt Ron hissed at Ron.

A feeling of great gloom in his stomach, Ron pulled the door open.

On the threshold stood Aunt Ron. She was very like Uncle Ron:

large, beefy, and purple­ faced, she even had a mustache, though not as bushy as his. In one hand she held an enormous suitcase, and tucked under the other was an old and evil­tempered bulldog.

"Where's my Dudders?" roared Aunt Ron. "Where's my neffy­poo?"

Ron came waddling down the hall, his blond hair plastered flat to his fat head, a bow tie just visible under his many chins. Aunt Ron thrust the suitcase into Ron's stomach, knocking the wind out of him, seized Ron in a tight one­armed hug, and planted a large kiss on his cheek.

Ron knew perfectly well that Ron only put up with Aunt Ron's hugs because he was well paid for it, and sure enough, when they broke apart,

Ron had a crisp twenty­pound note clutched in his fat fist.

"Ron!" shouted Aunt Ron, striding past Ron as though he was a hat stand. Aunt Ron and Aunt Ron kissed, or rather, Aunt Ron bumped her large jaw against Aunt Ron's bony cheekbone.

Uncle Ron now came in, smiling jovially as he shut the door.

"Tea, Ron?" he said. "And what will Ripper take?"

"Ripper can have some tea out of my saucer," said Aunt Ron as they all proceeded into the kitchen, leaving Ron alone in the hall with the suitcase. But Ron wasn't complaining; any excuse not to be with Aunt Ron was fine by him, so he began to heave the case upstairs into the spare bedroom, taking as long as he could.

By the time he got back to the kitchen, Aunt Ron had been supplied with tea and fruitcake, and Ripper was lapping noisily in the corner.

Ron saw Aunt Ron wince slightly as specks of tea and drool flecked her clean floor. Aunt Ron hated animals.

"Who's looking after the other dogs, Ron?" Uncle Ron asked.

"Oh, I've got Colonel Fubster managing them," boomed Aunt Ron. "He's retired now, good for him to have something to do. But I couldn't leave poor old Ripper. He pines if he's away from me."

Ripper began to growl again as Ron sat down. This directed Aunt Ron's attention to Ron for the first time.

"So!" she barked. "Still here, are you?"

"Yes," said Ron.

"Don't you say yes' in that ungrateful tone," Aunt Ron growled. "It's damn good of Ron and Ron to keep you. Wouldn't have done it myself. You'd have gone straight to an orphanage if you'd been dumped on my doorstep."

Ron was bursting to say that he'd rather live in an orphanage than with the Weasleys, but the thought of the Hogsmeade form stopped him. He forced his face into a painful smile.

"Don't you smirk at me!" boomed Aunt Ron. "I can see you haven't improved since I last saw you. I hoped school would knock some manners into you." She took a large gulp of tea, wiped her mustache, and said,

"Where is it that you send him, again, Ron?"

"St. Brutus's," said Uncle Ron promptly. "It's a first­rate institution for hopeless cases."

"I see," said Aunt Ron. "Do they use the cane at St. Brutus's, boy?" she barked across the table.

"Er ­­"

Uncle Ron nodded curtly behind Aunt Ron's back.

"Yes," said Ron. Then, feeling he might as well do the thing properly, he added, "all the time."

"Excellent," said Aunt Ron. "I won't have this namby­pamby,

wishy­washy nonsense about not hitting people who deserve it. A good thrashing is what's needed in ninety­nine cases out of a hundred. Have you been beaten often?"

 "Oh, yeah," said Ron, "loads of times."

Aunt Ron narrowed her eyes.

"I still don't like your tone, boy," she said. "If you can speak of your beatings in that casual way, they clearly aren't hitting you hard enough. Ron, I'd write if I were you. Make it clear that you approve the use of extreme force in this boy's case."

Perhaps Uncle Ron was worried that Ron might forget their bargain; in any case, he changed the subject abruptly.

"Heard the news this morning, Ron? What about that escaped prisoner, eh?"

As Aunt Ron started to make herself at home, Ron caught himself thinking almost longingly of life at number four without her. Uncle Ron and Aunt Ron usually encouraged Ron to stay out of their way, which Ron was only too happy to do. Aunt Ron, on the other hand, wanted Ron under her eye at all times, so that she could boom out suggestions for his improvement. She delighted in comparing Ron with Ron, and took huge pleasure in buying Ron expensive presents while glaring at Ron, as though daring him to ask why he hadn't got a present too. She also kept throwing out dark hints about what made Ron such an unsatisfactory person.

"You mustn't blame yourself for the way the boy's turned out, Ron," she said over lunch on the third day. "If there's something rotten on the inside, there's nothing anyone can do about it."

Ron tried to concentrate on his food, but his hands shook and his face was starting to burn with anger. Remember the form, he told himself Think about Hogsmeade. Don't say anything. Don't rise Aunt Ron reached for her glass of wine.

"It's one of the basic rules of breeding," she said. "You see it all the time with dogs. If there's something wrong with the bitch, there'll be something wrong with the pup ­­"

 At that moment, the wineglass Aunt Ron was holding exploded in her hand. Shards of glass flew in every direction and Aunt Ron sputtered and blinked, her great ruddy face dripping.

"Ron!" squealed Aunt Ron. "Ron, are you all right?"

"Not to worry," grunted Aunt Ron, mopping her face with her napkin.

"Must have squeezed it too hard. Did the same thing at Colonel Fubster's the other day. No need to fuss, Ron, I have a very firm grip..."

But Aunt Ron and Uncle Ron were both looking at Ron suspiciously, so he decided he'd better skip dessert and escape from the table as soon as he could.

Outside in the hall, he leaned against the wall, breathing deeply It had been a long time since he'd lost control and made something explode. He couldn't afford to let it happen again. The Hogsmeade form wasn't the only thing at stake ­­ if he carried on like that, he'd be in trouble with the Ministry of Magic.

Ron was still an underage wizard, and he was forbidden by wizard law to do magic outside school. His record wasn't exactly clean either. Only last summer he'd gotten an official warning that had stated quite clearly that if the Ministry got wind of any more magic in Privet Drive,

Ron would face expulsion from Hogwarts.

He heard the Weasleys leaving the table and hurried upstairs out of the way.

Ron got through the next three days by forcing himself to think about his Handbook of Do­It­Yourself Broomcare whenever Aunt Ron started on him. This worked quite well, though it seemed to give him a glazed look,

because Aunt Ron started voicing the opinion that he was mentally subnormal.

At last, at long last, the final evening of Ron's stay arrived. Aunt Ron cooked a fancy dinner and Uncle Ron uncorked several bottles of wine. They got all the way through the soup and the salmon without a single mention of Ron's faults; during the lemon meringue pie, Uncle

Ron bored them A with a long talk about Grunnings, his drill­making company; then Aunt Ron made coffee and Uncle Ron brought out a bottle of brandy.

"Can I tempt you, Ron?"

Aunt Ron had already had quite a lot of wine. Her huge face was very red.

"Just a small one, then," she chuckled. "A bit more than that... and a bit more... that's the ticket."

Ron was eating his fourth slice of pie. Aunt Ron was sipping coffee with her little finger sticking out. Ron really wanted to disappear into his bedroom, but he met Uncle Ron's angry little eyes and knew he would have to sit it out.

"Aah," said Aunt Ron, smacking her lips and putting the empty brandy glass back down. "Excellent nosh, Ron. It's normally just a fry­up for me of an evening, with twelve dogs to look after...." She burped richly and patted her great tweed stomach. "Pardon me. But I do like to see a healthy­sized boy," she went on, winking at Ron. "You'll be a proper­sized man, Dudders, like your father. Yes, I'll have a spot more brandy, Ron...."

"Now, this one here ­­"

She jerked her head at Ron, who felt his stomach clench. The Handbook, he thought quickly.

"This one's got a mean, runty look about him. You get that with dogs. I had Colonel Fubster drown one last year. Ratty little thing it was­ Weak. Underbred."

Ron was trying to remember page twelve of his book: A Charm to Cure Reluctant Reversers. "It all comes down to blood, as I was saying the other day.

Bad blood will out. Now, I'm saying nothing against your family,

Ron" she patted Aunt Ron's bony hand with her shovellike one "but your sister was a bad egg. They turn up in the best families. Then she ran off with a wastrel and here's the result right in front of us."

Ron was staring at his plate, a funny ringing in his ears. Grasp your broom firmly by the tail, he thought. But he couldn't remember what came next. Aunt Ron's voice seemed to be boring into him like one of Uncle Ron's drills.

"This Weasley, 5) said Aunt Ron loudly, seizing the brandy bottle and splashing more into her glass and over the tablecloth, "you never told me what he did?"

Uncle Ron and Aunt Ron were looking extremely tense. Ron had even looked up from his pie to gape at his parents.

"He ­­ didn't work," said Uncle Ron, with half a glance at Ron.

"Unemployed."

"As I expected!" said Aunt Ron, taking a huge swig of brandy and wiping her chin on her sleeve. "A no­account, good­for­nothing, lazy scrounger who ­­"

"He was not," said Ron suddenly. The table went very quiet. Ron was shaking all over. He had never felt so angry in his life.

"MORE BRANDY!" yelled Uncle Ron, who had gone very white. He emptied the bottle into Aunt Ron's glass. "You, boy," he snarled at Ron. "Go to bed, go on ­­"

"No, Ron," hiccuped Aunt Ron, holding up a hand, her tiny bloodshot eyes fixed on Ron's. "Go on, boy, go on. Proud of your parents, are you? They go and get themselves killed in a car crash (drunk, I expect) ­­"

'They didn't die in a car crash!" said Ron, who found himself on his feet.

"They died in a car crash, you nasty little liar, and left you to be a burden on their decent, hardworking relatives!" screamed Aunt Ron, swelling with fury. "You are an insolent, ungrateful little ­­"

But Aunt Ron suddenly stopped speaking. For a moment, it looked as though words had failed her. She seemed to be swelling with inexpressible anger ­­ but the swelling didn't stop. Her great red face started to expand, her tiny eyes bulged, and her mouth stretched too tightly for speech ­­ next second, several buttons had just burst from her tweed jacket and pinged off the walls ­­ she was inflating like a monstrous balloon, her stomach bursting free of her tweed waistband, each of her fingers blowing up like a salami ­­ "Ron!" yelled Uncle Ron and Aunt Ron together as Aunt Ron's whole body began to rise off her chair toward the ceiling. She was entirely round, now, like a vast life buoy with piggy eyes, and her hands and feet stuck out weirdly as she drifted up into the air, making apoplectic popping noises. Ripper came skidding into the room, barking madly.

"NOOOOOOO!"

Uncle Ron seized one of Ron's feet and tried to pull her down again, but was almost lifted from the floor himself. A second later,

Ripper leapt forward and sank his teeth into Uncle Ron's leg.

Ron tore from the dining room before anyone could stop him, heading for the cupboard under the stairs. The cupboard door burst magically open as he reached it. In seconds, he had heaved his trunk to the front door. He sprinted upstairs and threw himself under the bed, wrenching up the loose floorboard, and grabbed the pillowcase full of his books and birthday presents. He wriggled out, seized Ron's empty cage, and dashed back downstairs to his trunk, just as Uncle Ron burst out of the dining room, his trouser leg in bloody tatters.

"COME BACK IN HERE!" he bellowed. "COME BACK AND PUT HER RIGHT!"

But a reckless rage had come over Ron. He kicked his trunk open,

pulled out his wand, and pointed it at Uncle Ron.

"She deserved it," Ron said, breathing very fast. "She deserved what she got. You keep away from me."

He fumbled behind him for the latch on the door.

"I'm going," Ron said. "I've had enough."

And in the next moment, he was out in the dark, quiet street, heaving his heavy trunk behind him, Ron's cage under his arm.

CHAPTER THREE THE KNIGHT BUS

Ron was several streets away before he collapsed onto a low wall in Magnolia Crescent, panting from the effort of dragging his trunk. He sat quite still, anger still surging through him, listening to the frantic thumping of his heart.

But after ten minutes alone in the dark street, a new emotion overtook him: panic. Whichever way he looked at it, he had never been in a worse fix. He was stranded, quite alone, in the dark Muggle world, with absolutely nowhere to go. And the worst of it was, he had just done serious magic, which meant that he was almost certainly expelled from Hogwarts. He had broken the Decree for the Restriction of Underage Wizardry so badly, he was surprised Ministry of Magic representatives weren't swooping down on him where he sat.

Ron shivered and looked up and down Magnolia Crescent.

What, was going to happen to him? Would he be arrested, or would he simply be outlawed from the wizarding world? He thought of Ron and Ron, and his heart sank even lower. Ron was sure that, criminal or not, Ron and Ron would want to help him now, but they were both abroad, and with Ron gone, he had no means of contacting them.

He didn't have any Muggle money, either. There was a little wizard gold in the money bag at the bottom of his trunk, but the rest of the fortune his parents had left him was stored in a vault at Gringotts Wizarding Bank in London. He'd never be able to drag his trunk all the way to London. Unless...

He looked down at his wand, which he was still clutching in his hand. If he was already expelled (his heart was. now thumping painfully fast), a bit more magic couldn't hurt. He had the Invisibility Cloak he had inherited from his father ­­ what if he bewitched the trunk to make it feather­light, tied it to his broomstick, covered himself in the cloak, and flew to London? Then he could get the rest of his money out of his vault and... begin his life as an outcast. It was a horrible prospect, but he couldn't sit on this wall forever, or he'd find himself trying to explain to Muggle police why he was out in the dead of night with a trunkful of spellbooks and a broomstick.

Ron opened his trunk again and pushed the contents aside, looking for the Invisibility Cloak ­ but before he had found it, he straightened up suddenly, looking around him once more.

A funny prickling on the back of his neck had made Ron feel he was being watched, but the street appeared to be deserted, and no lights shone from any of the large square houses.

He bent over his trunk again, but almost immediately stood up once more, his hand clenched on his wand. He had sensed rather than heard it:  someone or something was standing in the narrow gap between the garage and the fence behind him. Ron squinted at the black alleyway. If only it would move, then he'd know whether it was just a stray cat or ­­ something else.

"Lumos," Ron muttered, and a light appeared at the end of his wand, almost dazzling him. He held it high over his head, and the pebble­dashed walls of number two suddenly sparkled; the garage door gleamed, and between them Ron saw, quite distinctly, the hulking outline of something very big, with wide, gleaming eyes.

Ron stepped backward. His legs hit his trunk and he tripped. His wand flew out of his hand as he flung out an arm to break his fall, and he landed, hard, in the gutter ­­ There was a deafening BANG, and Ron threw up his hands to shield his eyes against a sudden blinding light ­­ With a yell, he rolled back onto the pavement, just in time. A second later, a gigantic pair of wheels and headlights screeched to a halt exactly where Ron had just been lying. They belonged, as Ron saw when he raised his head, to a triple­decker, violently purple bus, which had appeared out of thin air. Gold lettering over the windshield spelled The Knight Bus.

For a Split second, Ron wondered if he had been knocked silly by his fall. Then a conductor in a purple uniform leapt out of the bus and began to speak loudly to the night.

"Welcome to the Knight Bus, emergency transport for the stranded witch or wizard. just stick out your wand hand, step on board) and we can take you anywhere you want to go. My name is Ron Weasley, and I will be your conductor this eve ­­"

The conductor stopped abruptly. He had just caught sight of "Ron, who was still sitting on the ground. Ron snatched up his wand again and scrambled to his feet. Close up, he saw that Ron Weasley was only a few years older than he was, eighteen or nineteen at most, with large, protruding ears and quite a few pimples.

"What were you doin' down there?" said Ron, dropping his professional manner.

"Fell over," said Ron.

"'Rono fall over for?" sniggered Ron.

"I didn't do it on purpose," said Ron, annoyed. One of the knees in his jeans was torn, and the hand he had thrown out to break his fall was bleeding. He suddenly remembered why he had fallen over and turned around quickly to stare at the alleyway between the garage and fence.

The Knight Bus's headlamps were flooding it with light, and it was empty.

"'Rono lookin' at?" said Ron.

"There was a big black thing," said Ron, pointing uncertainly into the gap. "Like a dog... but massive..."

He looked a­round at Ron, whose mouth was slightly open. With a feeling of unease, Ron saw Ron's eyes move to the scar on Ron's forehead.

"Woss that on your 'ead?" said Ron abruptly.

"Nothing," said Ron quickly, flattening his hair over his scar. If the Ministry of Magic was looking for him, he didn't want to make it too easy for them.

"Woss your name?" Ron persisted.

"Ron Weasley," said Ron, saying the first name that came into his head. "So ­­ so this bus," he went on quickly, hoping to distract Ron, "did you say it goes anywhere?"

"Yep," said Ron proudly, "anywhere you like, long's it's on land. Can't do nuffink underwater. 'Ere," he said, looking suspicious again, ,You did flag us down, dincha? Stuck out your wand 'and, dincha?"

"Yes," said Ron quickly. "Listen, how much would it be to get to London?"

"Eleven Sickles," said Ron, "but for fifteen you get 'or chocolate, and for fifteen you get an 'ot water bottle an' a toofbrush in the color of your choice."

Ron rummaged once more in his trunk, extracted his money bag, and shoved some gold into Ron's hand. He and Ron then lifted his trunk, with Ron's cage balanced on top, up the steps of the bus.

There were no seats; instead, half a dozen brass bedsteads stood beside the curtained windows. Candles were burning in brackets beside each bed, illuminating the wood­paneled walls. A tiny wizard in a nightcap at the rear of the bus muttered, "Not now, thanks, I'm pickling some slugs" and rolled over in his sleep.

"You 'ave this one," Ron whispered, shoving Ron's trunk under the bed right behind the driver, who was sitting in an armchair in front of the steering wheel. "This is our driver, Ron Weasley. This ,is Ron Weasley, Ern. "

Ron Weasley, an elderly wizard wearing very thick glasses, nodded to Ron, who nervously flattened his bangs again and sat down on his bed.

"Take 'er away, Ern," said Ron, sitting down in the armchair next to Ron's.

There was another tremendous BANG, and the next moment Ron found himself flat on his bed, thrown backward by the speed of the Knight Bus.

Pulling himself up, Ron stared out of the dark window and saw that they were now bowling along a completely different street. Ron was watching Ron's stunned face with great enjoyment.

"This is where we was before you flagged us down," he said. "Where are we, Ern? Somewhere in Wales?"

"Ar," said Ron.

"How come the Muggles don't hear the bus?" said Ron.

"Them!" said Ron contemptuously. "Don' listen properly, do they? Don' look properly either. Never notice nuffink, they don'."

"Best go wake up Ron Marsh, Ron," said Ern. "We'll be in Abergavenny in a minute."

Ron passed Ron's bed and disappeared up a narrow wooden staircase.

Ron was still looking out of the window, feeling increasingly nervous.

Ron didn't seem to have mastered the use of a steering wheel. The Knight Bus kept mounting the pavement, but it didn't hit anything; lines of lampposts, mailboxes, and trash cans jumped out of its way as it approached and back into position once it had passed.

Ron came back downstairs, followed by a faintly green witch wrapped in a traveling cloak.

"'Ere you go, Ron Marsh," said Ron happily as Ern stamped on the brake and the beds slid a foot or so toward the front of the bus. Ron Marsh clamped a handkerchief to her mouth and tottered down the steps.

Ron threw her bag out after her and rammed the doors shut; there was another loud BANG, and they were thundering down a narrow country lane, trees leaping out of the way.

Ron wouldn't have been able to sleep even if he had been traveling on a bus that didn't keep banging loudly and jumping a hundred miles at a time. His stomach churned as he fell back to wondering what was going to happen to him, and whether the Weasleys had managed to get Aunt Ron off the ceiling yet.

Ron had unfurled a copy of the Daily Prophet and was now reading with his tongue between his teeth. A large photograph of a sunken­faced man with long, matted hair blinked slowly at Ron from the front page. He looked strangely familiar.

"That man!" Ron said, forgetting his troubles for a moment. "He was on the Muggle news!"

Ronley turned to the front page and chuckled.

"Ron Weasley," he said, nodding. "'Course 'e was on the Muggle news,

Ron, where you been?"

He gave a superior sort of chuckle at the blank look on Ron's face, removed the front page, and handed it to Ron.

"You oughta read the papers more, Ron."

Ron held the paper up to the candlelight and read:

Weasley STILL AT LARGE Ron Weasley, possibly the most infamous prisoner ever to be held in Azkaban fortress, is still eluding capture, the Ministry of Magic confirmed today.

"We are doing all we can to recapture Weasley," said the Minister of Magic, Ron Weasley, this morning, "and we beg the magical community to remain calm."

Weasley has been criticized by some members of the International

Federation of Warlocks for informing the Muggle Prime Minister of the crisis.

"Well, really, I had to, don't you know," said an irritable Weasley.

"Weasley is mad. He's a danger to anyone who crosses him, magic or Muggle.

I have the Prime Minister's assurance that he will not breathe a word of Weasley's true identity to anyone. And let's face it­who'd believe him if he did?"

While Muggles have been told that Weasley is carrying a gun (a kind of metal wand that Muggles use to kill each other), the magical community lives in fear of a massacre like that of twelve years ago, when Weasley murdered thirteen people with a single curse.

Ron looked into the shadowed eyes of Ron Weasley, the only part of the sunken face that seemed alive. Ron had never met a vampire, but he had seen pictures of them in his Defense Against the Dark Arts classes, and Weasley, with his waxy white skin, looked just like one.

"Scary­lookin' fing, inee?" said Ron, who had been watching Ron read.

"He murdered thirteen people?" said Ron, handing the page back to Ron, "with one curse?"

"Yep," said Ron, "in front of witnesses an' all. Broad daylight. Big trouble it caused, dinnit, Ern?"

"Ar," said Ern darkly.

Ron swiveled in his armchair, his hands on the back, the better to look at Ron.

"Weasley woz a big supporter of You­Know­'Oo," he said.

"What, Weasley?" said Ron, without thinking.

Even Ron's pimples went white; Ern jerked the steering wheel so hard that a whole farmhouse had to jump aside to avoid the bus.

"You outta your tree?" yelped Ron. "'Rono say 'is name for?"

"Sorry," said Ron hastily. "Sorry, I ­­ I forgot ­­"

"Forgot!" said Ron weakly. "Blimey, my 'eart's goin' that fast ..."

"So ­­ so Weasley was a supporter of You­Know­Who?" Ron prompted apologetically.

"Yeah," said Ron, still rubbing his chest. "Yeah, that's right. Very close to You­Know­'Oo, they say. Anyway, when little 'Arry Weasley got the better of You­Know­'Oo ­­"

Ron nervously flattened his bangs down again.

"­­ all You­Know­'Oo's supporters was tracked down, wasn't they, Ern?

Most of 'em knew it was all over, wiv You­Know­'Oo gone, and they came quiet. But not Ron Weasley. I 'eard he thought 'e'd be second­in­command once You­Know­'Oo 'ad taken over.

"Anyway, they cornered Weasley in the middle of a street full of Muggles an' Weasley took out 'is wand and 'e blasted 'alf the street apart, an' a wizard got it, an' so did a dozen Muggles what got in the way. 'Orrible,

eh? An' you know what Weasley did then?" Ron continued in a dramatic whisper.

"What?" said Ron.

"Laughed," said Ron. "Jus' stood there an' laughed. An' when reinforcements from the Ministry of Magic got there, I 'e went wiv em quiet as anyfink, still laughing 'is 'ead off. 'Cos 'e's mad, inee, Ern?

Inee mad?"

"If he weren't when he went to Azkaban, he will be now," said Ern in his slow voice. "I'd blow meself up before I set foot in that place. Serves him right, mind you ... after what he did...."

"They 'ad a job coverin' it up, din' they, Ern?" Ron said. "'Ole street blown up an' all them Muggles dead. What was it they said ad 'appened,

Ern?"

"Gas explosion," grunted Ron.

"An' now 'e's out," said Ron, examining the newspaper picture of Weasley's gaunt face again. "Never been a breakout from Azkaban before,

'as there, Ern? Beats me 'ow 'e did it. Frightenin', eh? Mind, I don't fancy 'is chances against them Azkaban guards, eh, Ern?"

Ron suddenly shivered.

"Talk about summat else, Ron, there's a good lad. Them Azkaban guards give me the collywobbles."

Ron put the paper away reluctantly, and Ron leaned against the window of the Knight Bus, feeling worse than ever. He couldn't help imagining what Ron might be telling his passengers in a few nights' time.

"'Ear about that 'Arry Weasley? Blew up 'is aunt! We 'ad 'im 'ere on the Knight Bus, di'n't we, Ern? 'E was tryin' I to run for it...."

He, Ron, had broken wizard law just like Ron Weasley. Was inflating Aunt Ron bad enough to land him in Azkaban? Ron didn't know anything about the wizard prison, though everyone he'd ever heard speak of it did so in the same fearful tone. Weasley, the Hogwarts gamekeeper, had spent two months there only last year. Ron wouldn't soon forget the look of terror on Weasley's face when he had been told where he was going, and Weasley was one of the bravest people Ron knew.

The Knight Bus rolled through the darkness, scattering bushes and wastebaskets, telephone booths and trees, and Ron lay, restless and miserable, on his feather bed. After a while, Ron remembered that Ron had paid for hot chocolate, but poured it all over Ron's pillow when the bus moved abruptly from Anglesea to Aberdeen. One by one, wizards and witches in dressing gowns and slippers descended from the upper floors to leave the bus. They all looked very pleased to go.

Finally, Ron was the only passenger left.

"Right then, Ron," said Ron, clapping his hands, where abouts in London?"

"Diagon Alley," said Ron.

"Righto," said Ron. "'Old tight, then."

BANG.

They were thundering along Charing Cross Road. Ron sat up and watched buildings and benches squeezing themselves out of the Knight Bus's way.

The sky was getting a little lighter. He would lie low for a couple of hours, go to Gringotts the. moment it opened, then set off ­­ where, he didn't know.

Ern slammed on the brakes and the Knight Bus skidded to a halt in front of a small and shabby­ looking pub, the Leaky Cauldron, behind which lay the magical entrance to Diagon Alley.

"Thanks," Ron said to Ern.

He jumped down the steps and helped Ron lower his trunk and Ron's cage onto the pavement.

"Well," said Ron. "'Bye then!"

But Ron wasn't paying attention. Still standing in the doorway to the bus) he was goggling at the shadowy entrance to the Leaky Cauldron.

"There you are, Ron," said a voice.

Before Ron could turn, he felt a hand on his shoulder. At the same time, Ron shouted, "Blimey! Ern, come 'ere! Come 'ere I"

Ron looked up at the owner of the hand on his shoulder and felt a bucketful of ice cascade into his stomach ­­ he had walked right into Ron Weasley, the Minister of Magic himself.

Ron leapt onto the pavement beside them.

"What didja call Ron, Minister?" he said excitedly.

Weasley, a portly little man in a long, pinstriped cloak, looked cold and exhausted.

"Ron?" he repeated, frowning. "This is Ron Weasley."

"I knew it!" Ron shouted gleefully. "Ern! Ern! Guess 'oo Ron is,

Ern! 'E's 'Arry Weasley! I can see 'is scar!"

"Yes," said Weasley testily, "well, I'm very glad the Knight Bus picked Ron up, but he and I need to step inside the Leaky Cauldron now..."

Weasley increased the pressure on Ron's shoulder, and Ron found himself being steered inside the pub. A stooping figure bearing a lantern appeared through the door behind the bar. It was Ron, the wizened, toothless landlord.

"You've got him, Minister!" said Ron. "Will you be wanting anything?

Beer? Brandy?"

"Perhaps a pot of tea," said Weasley, who still hadn't let go of Ron.

There was a loud scraping and puffing from behind them, and Ron and Ern appeared, carrying Ron's trunk and Ron's cage and looking around excitedly.

"'Ow come you di'n't tell us 'oo you are, eh, Ron?" said Ron, beaming at Ron, while Ron's owlish face peered interestedly over Ron's shoulder.

"And a private parlor, please, Ron," said Weasley pointedly.

`Bye," Ron said miserably to Ron and Ern as Ron beckoned Weasley toward the passage that led from the bar.

"'Bye, Ron!" called Ron.

Weasley marched Ron along the narrow passage after Ron's lantern, and then into a small parlor. Ron clicked his fingers, a fire burst into life in the grate, and he bowed himself out of the room.

"Sit down, Ron," said Weasley, indicating a chair by the fire.

Ron sat down, feeling goose bumps rising up his arms despite the glow of the fire. Weasley took off his pinstriped cloak and tossed it aside, then hitched up the trousers of his bottle­green suit and sat down opposite Ron.

"I am Ron Weasley, Ron. The Minister of Magic."

Ron already knew this, of course; he had seen Weasley once before, but as he had been wearing his father's Invisibility Cloak at the time,

Weasley wasn't to know that.

Ron the innkeeper reappeared, wearing an apron over his nightshirt and bearing a tray of tea and crumpets. He placed the tray on a table between Weasley and Ron and left the parlor, closing the door behind him.

"Well, Ron," said Weasley, pouring out tea, "you've had us all in a right flap, I don't mind telling you. Running away from your aunt and uncle's house like that! I'd started to think... but you're safe, and that's what matters."

Weasley buttered himself a crumpet and pushed the plate toward Ron.

"Eat, Ron, you look dead on your feet. Now then... You will be pleased to hear that we have dealt with the unfortunate blowing­up of Miss Ron Weasley. Two members of the Accidental Magic Reversal Department were dispatched to Privet Drive a few hours ago. Miss Weasley has been punctured and her memory has been modified. She has no recollection of the incident at all. So that's that, and no harm done."

Weasley smiled at Ron over the rim of his teacup, rather like an uncle surveying a favorite nephew. Ron, who couldn't believe his ears, opened his mouth to speak, couldn't think of anything to say, and closed it again.

"Ah, you're worrying about the reaction of your aunt and uncle?" said Weasley. "Well, I won't deny that they are extremely angry, Ron, but they are prepared to take you back next summer as long as you stay at Hogwarts for the Christmas and Easter holidays."

Ron unstuck his throat.

"I always stay at Hogwarts for the Christmas and Easter holidays," he said, "and I don't ever want to go back to Privet Drive."

"Now, now, I'm sure you'll feel differently once you've calmed down," said Weasley in a worried tone. "They are your family, after all, and I'm sure you are fond of each other ­­ er ­­ very deep down."

It didn't occur to Ron to put Weasley right. He was still waiting to hear what was going to happen to him now.

"So all that remains," said Weasley, now buttering himself a second crumpet, "is to decide where you're going to spend the last two weeks of your vacation. I suggest you take a room here at the Leaky Cauldron and "Hang on," blurted Ron. "What about my punishment?"

Weasley blinked. "Punishment?"

"I broke the law!" Ron said. "The Decree for the Restriction of Underage Wizardry!"

"Oh, my dear boy, we're not going to punish you for a little thing like that!" cried Weasley, waving his crumpet impatiently. "It was an accident!

We don't send people to Azkaban just for blowing up their aunts!"

But this didn't tally at all with Ron's past dealings with the Ministry of Magic.

"Last year, I got an official warning just because a house­elf smashed a pudding in my uncle's house!" he told Weasley, frowning. "The Ministry of Magic said I'd be expelled from Hogwarts if there was any more magic there!"

Unless Ron's eyes were deceiving him, Weasley was suddenly looking awkward.

"Circumstances change, Ron... We have to take into account... in the present climate... Surely you don't want to be expelled?"

"Of course I don't," said Ron.

"Well then, what's A the fuss about?" laughed Weasley. "Now, have a crumpet, Ron, while I go and see if Ron's got a room for you."

Weasley strode out of the parlor and Ron stared after him. There was something extremely odd going on. Why had Weasley been waiting for him at the Leaky Cauldron, if not to punish him for what he'd done? And now Ron came to think of it, surely it wasn't usual for the Minister of Magic himself to get involved in matters of underage magic?

Weasley came back, accompanied by Ron the innkeeper.

"Room eleven's free, Ron," said Weasley. "I think you'll be very comfortable. just one thing, and I'm sure you'll understand... I don't want you wandering off into Muggle London, all right? Keep to Diagon Alley. And you're to be back here before dark each night. Sure you'll understand. Ron will be keeping an eye on you for me."

"Okay," said Ron slowly, "but why?"

"Don't want to lose you again, do we?" said Weasley with a hearty laugh.

"No, no... best we know where you are.... I mean..."

Weasley cleared his throat loudly and picked up his pinstriped cloak.

"Well, I'll be off, plenty to do, you know...

"Have you had any luck with Weasley yet?" Ron asked.

Weasley's finger slipped on the silver fastenings of his cloak.

"What's that? Oh, you've heard ­­ well, no, not yet, but it's only a matter of time. The Azkaban guards have never yet failed... and they are angrier than I've ever seen them."

Weasley shuddered slightly.

"So, I'll say good­bye."

He held out his hand and Ron, shaking it, had a sudden idea.

"Er ­­ Minister? Can I ask you something?"

"Certainly," said Weasley with a smile.

"Well, third years at Hogwarts are allowed to visit Hogsmeade, but my aunt and uncle didn't sign the permission form. D'you think you could ­­?"

Weasley was looking uncomfortable.

"Ah," he said. "No, no, I'm very sorry, Ron, but as I'm not your parent or guardian ­­"

"But you I re the Minister of Magic," said Ron eagerly. "If you gave me permission

"No, I'm sorry, Ron, but rules are rules," said Weasley flatly.

'Perhaps You'll be able to visit Hogsmeade next year. In fact, I think it's best if you don't... yes... well, I'll be off Enjoy your stay,

Ron."

And with a last smile and shake of Ron's hand, Weasley left the room.

Ron now moved forward, beaming at Ron.

"If you'll follow me, Mr. Weasley," he said, "I've already taken your things up..."

Ron followed Ron up a handsome wooden staircase to a door with a brass number eleven on it, which Ron unlocked and opened for him.

Inside was a very comfortable­looking bed, some highly polished oak furniture, a cheerfully crackling fire and, perched on top of the wardrobe ­ "Ron!" Ron gasped.

The snowy owl clicked her beak and fluttered down onto Ron's arm.

"Very smart owl you've got there, chuckled Ron. "Arrived about five minutes after you did. If there's anything you need, Mr. Weasley, don't hesitate to ask."

He gave another bow and left.

Ron sat on his bed for a long time, absentmindedly stroking Ron.

The sky outside the window was changing rapidly from deep, velvety blue to cold, steely gray and then, slowly, to pink shot with gold. Ron could hardly believe that he'd left Privet Drive only a few hours ago,

that he wasn't expelled, and that he was now facing two completely Weasley­free weeks.

"It's been a very weird night, Ron," he yawned.

And without even removing his glasses, he slumped back onto his pillows and fell asleep.

 CHAPTER FOUR THE LEAKY CAULDRON

It took Ron several days to get used to his strange new freedom. Never before had he been able to get up whenever he wanted or eat whatever he fancied. He could even go wherever he pleased, as long as it was in Diagon Alley, and as this long cobbled street was packed with the most fascinating wizarding shops in the world, Ron felt no desire to break his word to Weasley and stray back into the Muggle world.

Ron ate breakfast each morning in the Leaky Cauldron, where he liked watching the other guests: funny little witches from the country, up for a day's shopping; venerable­looking wizards arguing over the latest article in Transfiguration Today; wild­looking warlocks; raucous dwarfs; and once, what looked suspiciously like a hag, who ordered a plate of raw liver from behind a thick woollen balaclava.

After breakfast Ron would go out into the backyard, take out his wand, tap the third brick from the left above the trash bit,, and stand back as the archway into Diagon Alley opened in the wall.

Ron spent the long sunny days exploring the shops and eating under the brightly colored umbrellas outside cafes, where his fellow diners were showing one another their purchases ( " it , s a lunascope, old boy ­­ no more messing around with moon charts, see?") or else discussing the case of Ron Weasley ("personalty, I won't let any of the children out alone until he's back in Azkaban"). Ron didn't have to do his homework under the blankets by flashlight anymore; now he could sit in the bright sunshine outside Ron Weasley's Ice Cream Parlor, finishing all his essays with occasional help from Ron Weasley himself, who, apart from knowing a great deal about medieval witch burnings, gave Ron free sundaes every half an hour.

Once Ron had refilled his money bag with gold Galleons, silver Sickles, and bronze Knuts from his vault at Gringotts, he had to exercise a lot of self­control not to spend the whole lot at once. He had to keep reminding himself that he had five years to go at Hogwarts, and how it would feel to ask the Weasleys for money for spellbooks, to stop himself from buying a handsome set of solid gold Gobstones (a wizarding game rather like marbles, in which the stones squirt a nasty­smelling liquid into the other player's face when they lose a point). He was sorely tempted, too, by the perfect, moving model of the galaxy in a large glass ball, which would have meant he never had to take another Astronomy lesson. But the thing that tested Ron's resolution most appeared in his favorite shop, Quality Quidditch Supplies, a week after he'd arrived at the Leaky Cauldron.

Curious to know what the crowd in the shop was staring at, Ron edged his way inside and squeezed in among the excited witches and wizards until he glimpsed a newly erected podium, on which was mounted the most magnificent broom he had ever seen in his life.

"Just come out ­­ prototype ­­" a square­jawed wizard was telling his companion.

"It's the fastest broom in the world, isn't it, Dad?" squeaked a boy younger than Ron, who was swinging off his father's arm.

"Irish International Side's Just put in an order for seven of these beauties!" the proprietor of the shop told the crowd. "And they're favorites for the World Cup!"

A large witch in front of Ron moved, and he was able to read the sign next to the broom:

** THE FIREBOLT ** THIS STATE­OF­THE­ART PACING BROOM SPORTS A STREAM­LINED,

SUPERFINE HANDLE OF ASH, TREARon WITH A DIAMOND­HARD POLISH AND HAND­ NUMBERED WITH ITS OWN REGISTRATION NUMBER. EACH INDIVIDUALLY SELECRon BIRCH TWIG IN THE BROOMTAIL HAS BEEN HONED TO AERODYNAMIC PERFECTION, GIVING THE FIREBOLT UNSURPASSABLE BALANCE AND PINPOINT PRECISION.

THE FIREBOLT HAS AN ACCELERATION OF 150 MILES AN HOUR IN TEN SECONDS AND INCORPORATES AN UNBREAKABLE BRAKING CHARM. PRICE ON REQUEST.

Price on request... Ron didn't like to think how much gold the Firebolt would cost. He had never wanted anything as much in his whole life ­­ but he had never lost a Quidditch match on his Nim bus Two Thousand, and what was the point in emptying his Gringotts vault for the Firebolt, when he had a very good broom already? Ron didn't ask for the price, but he returned, almost every day after that, just to look at the Firebolt.

There were, however, things that Ron needed to buy. He went to the Apothecary to replenish his store of potions ingredients, and as his school robes were now several inches too short in the arm and leg, he visited Ron Weasley's Robes for All Occasions and bought new ones. Most important of all, he had to buy his new schoolbooks, which would include those for his two new subjects, Care of Magical Creatures and Divination.

Ron got a surprise as he looked in at the bookshop window. Instead of the usual display of gold­ embossed spellbooks the size of paving slabs, there was a large iron cage behind the glass that held about a hundred copies of The Monster Book of Monsters. Torn pages were flying everywhere as the books grappled with each other, locked together in furious wrestling matches and snapping aggressively.

Ron pulled his booklist out of his pocket and consulted it for the first time. The Monster Book of Monsters was listed as the required book for Care of Magical Creatures. Now Ron understood why Weasley had said it would come in useful. He felt relieved; he had been wondering whether Weasley wanted help with some terrifying new pet.

As Ron entered Flourish and Blotts, the manager came hurrying toward him.

"Hogwarts?" he said abruptly. "Come to get your new books?"

"Yes," said Ron, "I need ­­"

"Get out of the way," said the manager impatiently, brushing Ron aside. He drew on a pair of very thick gloves, picked up a large, knobbly walking stick, and proceeded toward the door of the Monster Books' cage.

"Hang on," said Ron quickly, "I've already got one of those."

"Have you?" A look of enormous relief spread over the manager's face.

"Thank heavens for that. I've been bitten five times already this morning ­­"

A loud ripping noise rent the air; two of the Monster Books had seized a third and were pulling it apart.

"Stop it! Stop it!" cried the manager, poking the walking stick through the bars and knocking the books apart. "I'm never stocking them again, never! It's been bedlam! I thought we'd seen the worst when we bought two hundred copies of the Invisible Book of Invisibility ­cost a fortune, and we never found them.... Well... is there anything else I can help you with?"

"Yes," said Ron, looking down his booklist, "I need Unfogging the

Future by Cassandra Vablatsky."

"Ah, starting Divination, are you?" said the manager, stripping off his gloves and leading Ron into the back of the shop, where there was a corner devoted to fortune­telling. A small table was stacked with volumes such as Predicting the Unpredictable: Insulate Yourself Against Shocks and Broken Balls: When Fortunes Turn Foul.

"Here you are,,' said the manager, who had climbed a set of steps to take down a thick, black­ bound book. "Unfogging the Future. Very good guide to all your basic fortune­telling methods ­ palmistry, crystal balls, bird entrails.

But Ron wasn't listening. His eyes had fallen on another book, which was among a display on a small table: Death Omens.­ What to Do When You Know the Worst Is Coming.

"Oh, I wouldn't read that if I were you," said the manager lightly, looking to see what Ron was staring at. "You'll start seeing death omens everywhere. It's enough to frighten anyone to death. "

But Ron continued to stare at the front cover of the book; it showed a black dog large as a bear, with gleaming eyes. It looked oddly familiar...

The manager pressed Unfogging the Future into Ron's hands.

"Anything else?" he said.

"Yes," said Ron, tearing his eyes away from the dog's and dazedly consulting his booklist. "Er ­­ I need Intermediate Transfiguration and The Rondard Book of Spells, Grade Three."

Ron emerged from Flourish and Blotts ten minutes later with his new books under his arms and made his way back to the Leaky Cauldron, hardly noticing where he was going and bumping into several people.

He tramped up the stairs to his room, went inside, and tipped his books onto his bed. Somebody had been in to tidy; the windows were open and sun was pouring inside. Ron could hear the buses rolling by in the unseen Muggle street behind him and the sound of the invisible crowd below in Diagon Alley. He caught sight of himself in the mirror over the basin.

"It can't have been a death omen," he told his reflection defiantly. "I was panicking when I saw that thing in Magnolia Crescent.... It was probably just a stray dog...."

He raised his hand automatically and tried to make his hair lie flat "You're fighting a losing battle there, dear," said his mirror in a vvheezy voice.

As the days slipped by, Ron started looking wherever he went for a sign of Ron or Ron. Plenty of Hogwarts students were arriving in Diagon Alley now, with the start of term so near. Ron met Ron Weasley and Ron Ron, his fellow Weasleys, in Quality Quidditch Supplies, where they too were ogling the Firebolt; he also ran into the real Ron Weasley, a round­faced, forgetful boy, outside Flourish and Blotts. Ron didn't stop to chat; Ron appeared to have mislaid his booklist and was being told off by his very formidable­looking grandmother. Ron hoped she never found out that he'd pretended to be Ron while on the run from the Ministry of Magic.

Ron woke on the last day of the holidays, thinking that he would at least meet Ron and Ron tomorrow, on the Hogwarts Express. He got up, dressed, went for a last look at the Firebolt, and was just wondering where he'd have lunch, when someone yelled his name and he turned.

"Ron! Ron!"

They were there, both of them, sitting outside Ron Weasley's Ice Cream Parlor ­­ Ron looking incredibly freckly, Her,,one very brown, both waving frantically at him.

"Finally!" said Ron, grinning at Ron as he sat down. "We went to the Leaky Cauldron, but they said you'd left, and we went to Flourish and Blotts, and Ron Weasley's, and ­­"

"I got all my school stuff last week," Ron explained. "And how come You knew I'm staying at the Leaky Cauldron?" "Dad," said Ron simply.

Mr. Weasley, who worked at the Ministry of Magic, would of course have heard the whole story of what had happened to Aunt Ron.

"Did you really blow up your aunt, Ron?" said Ron in a very serious voice.

"I didn't mean to," said Ron, while Ron roared with laughter. "I just ­­ lost control."

"It's not funny, Ron," said Ron sharply. "Honestly, I'm amazed Ron wasn't expelled."

"So am I," admitted Ron. "Forget expelled, I thought I was going to be arrested." He looked at Ron. "Your dad doesn't know why Weasley let me off, does he?"

"Probably 'cause it's you, isn't it?" shrugged Ron, still chuckling.

"Famous Ron Weasley and all that. I'd hate to see what the Ministry'd do to me if I blew up an aunt. Mind you, they'd have to dig me up first, because Mum would've killed me. Anyway, you can ask Dad yourself this evening. We're staying at the Leaky Cauldron tonight too! So you can come to King's Cross with us tomorrow! Ron's there as well!"

Ron nodded, beaming. "Mum and Dad dropped me off this morning with all my Hogwarts things."

"Excellent!" said Ron happily. "So, have you got all your new books and stuff?"

"Look at this," said Ron, pulling a long thin box out of a bag and opening it. "Brand­new wand. Fourteen inches, willow, containing one unicorn tail­hair. And we've got all our books ­­" He pointed at a large bag under his chair. "What about those Monster Books, eh? The assistant nearly cried when we said we wanted two."

"What's all that, Ron?" Ron asked, pointing at not one but three bulging bags in the chair next to her.

"Well, I'm taking more new subjects than you, aren't I" said Ron.

"Those are my books for Arithmancy, Care of Magical Creatures, Divination, the Study of Ancient Runes, Muggle Studies ­­"

"What are you doing Muggle Studies for?" said Ron, rolling his eyes at Ron. "You're Muggle­ born! Your mum and dad are Muggles! You already know all about Muggles!"

"But it'll be fascinating to study them from the wizarding point of view," said Ron earnestly.

"Are you planning to eat or sleep at all this year, Ron?" asked Ron, while Ron sniggered. Ron ignored them.

"I've still got ten Galleons," she said, checking her purse. "It's my birthday in September, and Mum and Dad gave me some money to get myself an early birthday present."

"How about a nice book? said Ron innocently.

"No, I don't think so," said Ron composedly. "I really want an owl.

I mean, Ron's got Ron and you've got Ron ­­"

"I haven't," said Ron. "Ron's a family owl. All I've got is Ron."

He pulled his pet rat out of his pocket. "And I want to get him checked over," he added, placing Ron on the table in front of them. "I don't think Egypt agreed with him."

Ron was looking thinner than usual, and there was a definite droop to his whiskers.

"There's a magical creature shop just over there," said Ron, who knew Diagon Alley very well by now. "You could see if they've got anything for Ron, and Ron can get her owl,"

So they paid for their ice cream and crossed the street to the Magical Menagerie.

There wasn't much room inside. Every inch of wall was hidden by cages.

It was smelly and very noisy because the occupants Of these cages were all squeaking, squawking, jabbering, or hissing. The witch behind the counter was already advising a wizard on the care of double­ended newts, so Ron, Ron, and Ron waited, examining the cages.

A pair of enormous purple toads sat gulping wetly and feasting on dead blowflies. A gigantic tortoise with a jewel­encrusted shell was glittering near the window. Poisonous orange snails were oozing slowly up the side of their glass tank, and a fat white rabbit kept changing into a silk top hat and back again with a loud popping noise. Then there were cats of every color, a noisy cage of ravens, a basket of funny custard­colored furballs that were humming loudly, and on the counter, a vast cage of sleek black rats that were playing some sort of skipping game using their long, bald tails.

The double­ended newt wizard left, and Ron approached the counter.

"It's my rat," he told the witch. "He been a bit off­color ever since I brought him back from Egypt."

"Bang him on the counter," said the witch, pulling a pair of heavy black spectacles out of her pocket.

Ron lifted Ron out of his inside pocket and placed him next to the cage of his fellow rats, who stopped their skipping tricks and scuffled to the wire for a better took.

Like nearly everything Ron owned, Ron the rat was secondhand (he had once belonged to Ron's brother Ron) and a bit battered. Next to the glossy rats in the cage, he looked especially woebegone.

"Hm," said the witch, picking up Ron. "How old is this rat?"

"Dunno," said Ron. "Quite old. He used to belong to my brother."

"What powers does he have?" said the witch, examining Ron closely.

"Er ­­" The truth was that Ron had never shown the faintest trace of interesting powers. The witchs eyes moved from Ron's tattered

left ear to his front paw, which had a toe missing, and tutted loudly.

"He's been through the mill, this one," she said.

"He was like that when Ron gave him to me," said Ron defensively.

"An ordinary common or garden rat like this can't be expected to live longer than three years or so," said the witch. "Now, if you were looking for something a bit more hard­wearing, you might like one of these ­­"

She indicated the black rats, who promptly started skipping again. Ron muttered, "Show­offs."

"Well, if you Don't want a replacement, you can try this rat tonic,"

said the witch, reaching under the counter and bringing out a small red bottle.

"Okay," said Ron. "How much ­­ OUCH!"

Ron buckled as something huge and orange came soaring from the top of the highest cage, landed on his head, and then propelled itself,

spitting madly, at Ron.

"NO, Ron, NO!" cried the witch, but Ron, shot from between her hands like a bar of soap, landed splay­legged on the floor, and then scampered for the door.

"Ron!" Ron shouted, racing out of the shop after him; Ron followed.

It took them nearly ten minutes to catch Ron, who had taken refuge under a wastepaper bin outside Quality Quidditch Supplies. Ron stuffed the trembling rat back into his pocket and straightened up, massaging his head.

"What was that?"

"It was either a very big cat or quite a small tiger," said Ron.

 "Where's Ron?"

"Probably getting her owl They made their way back up the crowded street to the Magical Menagerie.

As they reached it, Ron came out, but she wasn't carrying an owl.

Her arms were clamped tightly around the enormous ginger cat.

"You bought that monster?" said Ron, his mouth hanging open.

"He's gorgeous, isn't he?" said Ron, glowing.

That was a matter of opinion, thought Ron. The cat's ginger fur was thick and fluffy, but it was definitely a bit bowlegged and its face looked grumpy and oddly squashed, as though it had run headlong into a brick wall. Now that Ron was out of sight, however, the cat was purring contentedly in Ron's arms.

"Herinione, that thing nearly scalped me!" said Ron.

"He didn't mean to, did you, Ron?" said Ron.

"And what about Ron?" said Ron, pointing at the lump in his chest pocket. "He needs rest and relaxation! How's he going to get it with that thing around?"

"That reminds me, you forgot your rat tonic," said Ron, slapping the small red bottle into Ron's hand. "And stop worrying, Ron will be sleeping in my dormitory and Ron in yours, what's the problem? Poor Ron, that witch said he'd been in there for ages; no one wanted him."

"Wonder why," said Ron sarcastically as they set off toward the Leaky Cauldron.

They found Mr. Weasley sitting in the bar, reading the Daily prophet.

"Ron!" he said, smiling as he looked up. "How are you?"

"Fine, thanks," said Ron as he, Ron, and Ron joined Mr. Weasley with A their shopping.

Mr. Weasley put down his paper, and Ron saw the now familiar picture of Ron Weasley staring up at him.

"They still haven't caught him, then?" he asked.

"No," said Mr. Weasley, looking extremely grave. "They've pulled us all off our regular jobs at the Ministry to try and find him, but no luck so far."

"Would we get a reward if we caught him?" asked Ron. "It'd be good to get some more money ­­"

"Don't be ridiculous, Ron," said Mr. Weasley, who on closer inspection looked very strained. "Weasley's not going to be caught by a thirteen­year­old wizard. It's the Azkaban guards who'll get him back,

You mark my words."

At that moment Mrs. Weasley entered the bar, laden with shopping bags and followed by the twins, Ron and Ron, who were about to start their fifth year at Hogwarts; the newly elected Head Boy, Ron; and the Weasleys' youngest child and only girl, Ron.

Ron, who had always been very taken with Ron, seemed even more heartily embarrassed than usual when she saw him, perhaps because he had saved her life during their previous year at Hogwarts. She went very red and muttered "hello" without looking at him. Ron, however, held out his hand solemnly as though he and Ron had never met and said, "Ron.

How nice to see you.

"Hello, Ron," said Ron, trying not to laugh.

I hope you're well?" said Ron pompously, shaking hands. It was rather like being introduced to the mayor.

"Very well, thanks ­­"

"Ron!" said Ron, elbowing Ron out of the way and bowing deeply.

"Simply splendid to see you, old boy ­­"

 "Marvelous," said Ron, pushing Ron aside and seizing Ron's hand in turn. "Absolutely spiffing."

Ron scowled.

"That's enough, now," said Mrs. Weasley.

"Mum!" said Ron as though he'd only just spotted her and seizing her hand too. "How really corking to see you ­­"

"I said, that's enough," said Mrs. Weasley, depositing her shopping in an empty chair. "Hello, Ron, dear. I suppose you've heard our exciting news?" She pointed to the brand­new silver badge on Ron's chest.

"Second Head Boy in the family!" she said, swelling with pride.

"And last," Ron muttered under his breath.

I don't doubt that," said Mrs. Weasley, frowning suddenly. "I notice they haven't made you two prefects."

"What do we want to be prefects for?" said Ron, looking revolted at the very idea. "It'd take all the fun out of life."

Ron giggled.

"Yo u want to set a better example for your sister!" snapped Mrs.

Weasley.

"Ron's got other brothers to set her an example, Mother," said Ron loftily. "I'm going up to change for dinner..."

He disappeared and Ron heaved a sigh.

"We tried to shut him in a pyramid," he told Ron. "But Mum spotted us."

Dinner that night was a very enjoyable affair. Ron the innkeeper put three tables together in the parlor, and the seven Weasleys, Ron, and Ron ate their way through five delicious courses.

 "How're we getting to King's Cross tomorrow, Dad?" asked Ron as they dug into a sumptuous chocolate pudding.

"The Ministry's providing a couple of cars," said Mr. Weasley.

Everyone looked up at him.

"Why?" said Ron curiously.

"It's because of you, Perce," said Ron seriously. "And there'll be little flags on the hoods, with HB on them"

"­­ for Humongous Bighead," said Ron.

Everyone except Ron and Mrs. Weasley snorted into their pudding.

"Why are the Ministry providing cars, Ronher?" Ron asked again, in a dignified voice.

"Well, as we haven't got one anymore," said Mr. Weasley,

"­­ and as I work there, they're doing me a favor ­­"

His voice was casual, but Ron couldn't help noticing that Mr.

Weasley's ears had gone red, just like Ron's did when he was under Pressure.

"Good thing, too," said Mrs. Weasley briskly. "Do you realize how much luggage you've all got between you? A nice sight you'd be on the Muggle Underground.... You are all packed, aren't you?"

"Ron hasn't put all his new things in his trunk yet," said Ron, in a long­suffering voice. "He's dumped them on my bed."

"You'd better go and pack properly, Ron, because we won't have much time in the morning," Mrs. Weasley called down the table. Ron scowled at Ron.

After dinner everyone felt very full and sleepy. One by one they made

their way upstairs to their rooms to check their things for the next day. Ron and Ron were next door to Ron. He had just closed and locked his own trunk when he heard angry voices through the wall, and went to see what was going on.

The door of number twelve was ajar and Ron was shouting.

"It was here, on the bedside table, I took it off for polishing "I haven't touched it, all right?" Ron roared back.

"What's up?" said Ron.

"My Head Boy badge is gone," said Ron, rounding on Ron.

"So's Ron's rat tonic," said Ron, throwing things out of his trunk to look. "I think I might've left it in the bar ­­"

"You're not going anywhere till you've found my badge!" yelled Ron.

"I'll get Ron's stuff, I'm packed," Ron said to Ron, and he went downstairs.

Ron was halfway along the passage to the bar, which was now very dark,

when he heard another pair of angry voices coming from the parlor. A second later, he recognized them as Mr. and Mrs.

Weasleys'. He hesitated, not wanting them to know he'd heard them arguing, when the sound of his own name made him stop, then move closer to the parlor door.

"­­makes no sense not to tell him," Mr. Weasley was saying heatedly.

"Ron's got a right to know. I've tried to tell Weasley, but he insists on treating Ron like a child. He's thirteen years old and ­­"

"Ron, the truth would terrify him!" said Mrs. Weasley shrilly. "Do you really want to send Ron back to school with that hanging over him?

For heaven's sake, he's happy not knowing!"

"I don't want to make him miserable, I want to put him on his guard!"

 retorted Mr. Weasley. "You know what Ron and Ron are like, wandering off by themselves ­­ they've ended up in the Forbidden Forest twice! But Ron mustn't do that this year! When I think what could have happened to him that night he ran away from home! If the Knight Bus hadn't picked him up, I'm prepared to bet he would have been dead before the Ministry found him."

"But he's not dead, he's fine, so what's the point "Ron, they say Ron Weasley's mad, and maybe he is, but he was clever enough to escape from Azkaban, and that's supposed to be impossible.

It's been three weeks, and no one's seen hide nor hair of him, and I don't care what Weasley keeps telling the Daily Prophet, we're no nearer catching Weasley than inventing self­spelling wands. The only thing we know for sure is what Weasley's after "But Ron will be perfectly safe at Hogwarts."

"We thought Azkaban was perfectly safe. If Weasley can break out of Azkaban, he can break into Hogwarts."

"But no one's really sure that Weasley's after Ron There was a thud on wood, and Ron was sure Mr. Weasley had banged his fist on the table.

"Ron, how many times do I have to tell you? They didn't report it in the press because Weasley wanted it kept quiet, but Weasley went out to Azkaban the night Weasley escaped. The guards told Weasley that Weasleys been talking in his sleep for a while now. Always the same words: 'He's at Hogwarts... he's at Hogwarts.' Weasley is deranged, Ron, and he wants Ron dead. If you ask me, he thinks murdering Ron will bring You­Know­Who back to pow er. Weasley lost everything the night Ron stopped You­ Know­Who, and he's had twelve years alone in Azkaban to brood on that...."

There was a silence. Ron leaned still closer to the door, desperate to hear more.

"Well, Ron, you must do what you think is right. But you're

forgetting Ron Weasley. I don't think anything could hurt Ron at Hogwarts while Weasley's headmaster. I suppose he knows about all this?"

"Of course he knows. We had to ask him if he minds the Azkaban guards stationing themselves around the entrances to the school grounds. He wasn't happy about it, but he agreed."

"Not happy? Why shouldn't he be happy, if they're there to catch Weasley?"

"Weasley isn't fond of the Azkaban guards," said Mr. Weasley heavily.

"Nor am 1, if it comes to that... but when you're dealing with a wizard like Weasley, you sometimes have to join forces with those you'd rather avoid."

"If they save Ron then I will never say another word against them,

said Mr. Weasley wearily. "It's late, Ron, we'd better go up...."

Ron heard chairs move. As quietly as he could, he hurried down the passage to the bar and out of sight. The parlor door opened, and a few seconds later footsteps told him that Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were climbing the stairs.

The bottle of rat tonic was lying under the table they had sat at earlier. Ron waited until he heard Mr. and Mrs. Weasley's bedroom door close, then headed back upstairs with the bottle.

Ron and Ron were crouching in the shadows on the landing, heaving with laughter as they listened to Ron dismantling his and Ron's room in search of his badge.

"We've got it," Ron whispered to Ron. "We've been improving it."

The badge now read Bighead Boy.

Ron forced a laugh, went to give Ron the rat tonic, then shut himself in his room and lay down on his bed.

So Ron Weasley was after him. This explained everything. Weasley had been lenient with him because he was so relieved to find him alive. He'd made

Ron promise to stay in Diagon Alley where there were plenty of wizards to keep an eye on him. And he was sending two Ministry cars to take them all to the station tomorrow, so that the Weasleys could look after Ron until he was on the train.

Ron lay listening to the muffled shouting next door and wondered why he didn't feel more scared. Ron Weasley had murdered thirteen people with one curse; Mr. and Mrs, Weasley obviously thought Ron would be panic­stricken if he knew the truth. But Ron happened to agree wholeheartedly with Mrs. Weasley that the safest place on earth was wherever Ron Weasley happened to be. Didn't people always say that Weasley was the only person Lord Weasley had ever been afraid of?

Surely Weasley, as Weasley's right­hand man, would be just as frightened of him?

And then there were these Azkaban guards everyone kept talking about.

They seemed to scare most people senseless, and if they were stationed all around the school, Weasley's chances of getting inside seemed very remote.

No, all in all, the thing that bothered Ron most was the fact that his chances of visiting Hogsmeade now looked like zero. Nobody would want Ron to leave the safety of the castle until Weasley was caught; in fact,

Ron suspected his every move would be carefully watched until the danger had passed.

He scowled at the dark ceiling. Did they think he couldn't look after himself? He'd escaped Lord Weasley three times; he wasn't completely useless....

Unbidden, the image of the beast in the shadows of Magnolia Crescent crossed his mind. What to do when you know the worst is coming...

"I'm not going to be murdered," Ron said out loud.

"That's the spirit, dear," said his mirror sleepily.

 CHAPTER FIVE THE DEMENTOR

Ron woke Ron the next morning with his usual toothless grin and a cup of tea. Ron got dressed and was just persuading a disgruntled Ron to get back into her cage when Ron banged his way into the room, pulling a sweatshirt over his head and looking irritable.

"The sooner we get on the train, the better," he said. "At least I can get away from Ron at Hogwarts. Now he's accusing me of dripping tea on his photo of Ron Weasley. You know," Ron grimaced, "his girlfriend. She's hidden her face under the frame because her nose has gone all blotchy..."

"I've got something to tell you," Ron began, but they were interrupted by Ron and Ron, who had looked in to congratulate Ron on infuriating Ron again.

They headed down to breakfast, where Mr. Weasley was reading the front page of the Daily Prophet with a furrowed brow and Mrs. Weasley was telling Ron and Ron about a love potion she'd made as a young girl. All three of them were rather giggly.

"What were you saying?" Ron asked Ron as they sat down.

"Later," Ron muttered as Ron stormed in.

Ron had no chance to speak to Ron or Ron in the chaos of leaving; they were too busy heaving all their trunks down the Leaky Cauldron's narrow staircase and piling them up near the door, with Ron and Hermes, Ron's screech owl, perched on top in their cages. A small wickerwork basket stood beside the heap of trunks, spitting loudly.

"It's all right, Ron," Ron cooed through the wickerwork.

"I'll let you out on the train."

"You won't," snapped Ron. "What about poor Ron, eh?"

He pointed at his chest, where a large lump indicated that Ron was curled up in his pocket.

Mr. Weasley, who had been outside waiting for the Ministry cars, stuck

his head inside.

"They're here, he said. "Ron, come on."

Mr. Weasley marched Ron across the short stretch of pavement toward the first of two old­ fashioned dark green cars, each of which was driven by a furtive­looking wizard wearing a suit of emerald velvet.

"In you get, Ron," said Mr. Weasley, glancing up and down the crowded street.

Ron got into the back of the car and was shortly joined by Ron,

Ron, and, to Ron's disgust, Ron.

The journey to King's Cross was very uneventful compared with Ron's trip on the Knight Bus. The Ministry of Magic cars seemed almost ordinary. though Ron noticed that they could slide through gaps that Uncle Ron's new company car certainly couldn't have managed. They reached King's Cross with twenty minutes to spare; the Ministry drivers found them trolleys, unloaded their trunks, touched their hats in salute to Mr. Weasley, and drove away, somehow managing to jump to the head of an unmoving line at the traffic lights.

Mr. Weasley kept close to Ron's elbow all the way into the station.

"Right then," he said, glancing around them. "Let's do this in pairs, as there are so many of us. I'll go through first with Ron."

Mr. Weasley strolled toward the barrier between platforms nine and ten,

pushing Ron's trolley and apparently very interested in the InterCity 125 that had just arrived at platform nine. With a meaningful look at Ron, he leaned casually against the barrier. Ron imitated him.

In a moment, they had fallen sideways through the solid metal onto platform nine and three­ quarters and looked up to see the Hogwarts Express, a scarlet steam engine, puffing smoke over a platform packed with witches and wizards seeing their children onto the train.

Ron and Ron suddenly appeared behind Ron. They were panting and had apparently taken the barrier at a run.

 "Ah, there's Ron!" said Ron, smoothing his hair and going Pink again. Ron caught Ron's eye, and they both turned away to hide their laughter as Ron strode over to a girl with long, curly hair, walking with his chest thrown out so that she couldn't miss his shiny badge.

stood back to let him on. They leaned out of the window and waved at Mr.

and Mrs. Weasley until the train turned a corner and blocked them from view.

"I need to talk to you in private," Ron muttered to Ron and Ron as the train picked up speed.

"Go away, Ron," said Ron.

"Oh, that's nice," said Ron huffily, and she stalked off.

Ron, Ron, and Ron set off down the corridor, looking for an empty compartment, but all were full except for the one at the very end of the train.

This had only one occupant, a man sitting fast asleep next to the window. Ron, Ron, and Ron checked on the threshold. The Hogwarts Express was usually reserved for students and they had never seen an adult there before, except for the witch who pushed the food cart.

The stranger was wearing an extremely shabby set of wizard's robes that had been darned in several places. He looked ill and exhausted. Though quite young, his light brown hair was flecked with gray.

"Who d'you reckon he is?" Ron hissed as they sat down and slid the door shut, taking the seats farthest away from the window.

"Professor R. J. Weasley," whispered Ron at once.

"How d'you know that?"

"It's on his case," she replied, pointing at the luggage rack over the man's head, where there was a small, battered case held together with a large quantity of neatly knotted string. The name Professor R. J. Weasley was stamped across one corner in peeling letters.

 "Wonder what he teaches?" said Ron, frowning at Professor Weasley's pallid profile.

"That's obvious," whispered Ron. "There's only one vacancy, isn't there? Defense Against the Dark Arts."

Ron, Ron, and Ron had already had two Defense Against the Dark Arts teachers, both of whom had lasted only one year. There were rumors that the job was jinxed.

"well, I hope he's up to it," said Ron doubtfully. "He looks like on,

good hex would finish him off, doesn't he? Anyway..." He turned to Ron. "What were you going to tell us?"

Ron explained all about Mr. and Mrs. Weasley's argument and the warning Mr. Weasley had just given him. \When he'd finished, Ron looked thunderstruck, and Ron had her hands over her mouth. She finally lowered them to say, "Ron Weasley escaped to come after you? Oh,

Ron... you'll have to be really, really careful. don't go looking for trouble, Ron ­­"

"I Don't go looking for trouble," said Ron, nettled. "Trouble usually finds me."

"How thick would Ron have to be, to go looking for a nutter who wants to kill him?" said Ron shakily.

They were taking the news worse than Ron had expected. Both Ron and Ron seemed to be much more frightened of Weasley than he was.

"No one knows how he got out of Azkaban," said Ron uncomfortably. "No one's ever done it before. And he was a top­security prisoner too."

"But they'll catch him, won't they?" said Ron earnestly. "I Mean,

they've got all the Muggles looking out for him too...." "What's that noise?" said Ron suddenly.

A faint, tinny sort of whistle was coming from somewhere. The, looked all around the compartment.

 "It's coming from your trunk, Ron," said Ron, standing UP and reaching into the luggage rack. A moment later he had pulled the Pocket Sneakoscope out from between Ron's robes. It was spinning very fast in the palm of Ron's hand and glowing brilliantly.

"Is that a Sneakoscope?" said Ron interestedly, standing up for a better look.

"Yeah... mind you, it's a very cheap one," Ron said. "It went haywire just as I was tying it to Ron's leg to send it to Ron."

"Were you doing anything untrustworthy at the time?" said Ron shrewdly.

"No! Well... I wasn't supposed to be using Ron. You know he's not really up to long journeys... but how else was I supposed to get Ron's present to him?"

"Stick it back in the trunk," Ron advised as the Sneakoscope whistled piercingly, "or it'll wake him up."

He nodded toward Professor Weasley. Ron stuffed the Sneakoscope into a particularly horrible pair of Uncle Ron's old socks, which deadened the sound, then closed the lid of the trunk on it.

"We could get it checked in Hogsmeade," said Ron, sitting back down.

"They sell that sort of thing in Dervish and Banges, magical instruments and stuff. Ron and Ron told me."

"Do you know much about Hogsmeade?" asked Ron keenly. "I've read it's the only entirely non­Muggle settlement in Britain ­­"

"Yeah, I think it is," said Ron in an offhand sort of way.

"But that's not Why I want to go. I just want to get inside Honey Dukes."

"What's that?" said Ron.

 "It's this sweetshop," said Ron, a dreamy look coming over his face,

"where they've got everything... Pepper Imps ­­ they make you smoke at the mouth ­­ and great fat Roncoballs full of strawberry mousse and clotted cream, and really excellent sugar quills, which you can suck in class and just look like you're thinking what to write next ­­"

"But Hogsmeade's a very interesting place, isn't it?" Ron pressed on eagerly. "In Sites of Historical Sorcery it says the inn was the headquarters for the 1612 goblin rebellion, and the Shrieking Shades supposed to be the most severely haunted building in Britain ­­"

"­­ and massive sherbert balls that make you levitate a few inches off the ground while you're sucking them," said Ron, who was plainly not listening to a word Ron was saying.

Ron looked around at Ron.

"Won't it be nice to get out of school for a bit and explore Hogsmeade?"

"'Spect it will," said Ron heavily. "You'll have to tell me when You've found out."

"What d'you mean?" said Ron.

"I can't go. The Weasleys didn't sign my permission form, and Weasley wouldn't either."

Ron looked horrified.

""You're not allowed to come? But ­­ no way ­­ Weasley or someone will give you permission ­­ " musclely; Weasley was taller, with a pudding­bowl haircut and a very thick neck; Weasley had short, bristly hair and long, gorilla­ish arms.

"Well, look who it is," said Weasley in his usual lazy drawl, pulling open the compartment door. "Potty and the Weasel."

Weasley and Weasley chuckled trollishly.

"I heard your father finally got his hands on some gold this summer,

 Weasley," said Weasley. "Did your mother die of shock?"

Ron stood up so quickly he knocked Ron's basket to the floor.

Professor Weasley gave a snort.

"Who's that?" said Weasley, taking an automatic step backward as he spotted Weasley.

"New teacher," said Ron, who got to his feet, too, in case he needed to hold Ron back. "What were you saying, Weasley?"

Weasley's pale eyes narrowed; he wasn't fool enough to pick a fight right under a teacher's nose.

"C'mon," he muttered resentfully to Weasley and Weasley, and they disappeared.

Ron and Ron sat down again, Ron massaging his knuckles.

"I'm not going to take any crap from Weasley this year," he said angrily.

"I mean it. If he makes one more crack about my family, I'm going to get hold of his head and ­­"

Ron made a violent gesture in midair.

"Ron," hissed Ron, pointing at Professor Weasley, "be careful..."

But Professor Weasley was still fast asleep.

The rain thickened as the train sped yet farther north; the windows were now a solid, shimmering gray, which graduily darkened until lanterns flickered into life all along the corridors and over the luggage racks.

The train rattled, the rain hammered, the ind roared, but still,

Professor Weasley slept.

"We must be nearly there," said Ron, leaning forward to look past Professor Weasley at the now completely black window.

The words had hardly left him when the train started to slow down.

 "Great," said Ron, getting up and walking carefully past Professor Weasley to try and see outside. "I'm starving. I want to get to the feast....

"We can't be there yet," said Ron, checking her watch.

"So why're we stopping?"

The train was getting slower and slower. As the noise of the pistons fell away, the wind and rain sounded louder than ever against the windows.

Ron, who was nearest the door, got up to look into the corridor. All along the carriage, heads were sticking curiously out of their compartments.

The train came to a stop with a jolt, and distant thuds and bangs told them that luggage had fallen out of the racks. Then, without warning,

all the lamps went out and they were plunged into total darkness.

"'What's going on?" said Ron's voice from behind Ron.

"Ouch!" gasped Ron. "Ron, that was my foot!"

Ron felt his way back to his seat.

"D'you think we've broken down?"

"Dunno..."

There was a squeaking sound, and Ron saw the dim black outline of Ron,

wiping a patch clean on the window and peering out.

"There's something moving out there," Ron said. "I think people are coming aboard...."

The compartment door suddenly opened and someone fell painfully over Ron's legs.

"Sorry ­­ d'you know what's going on? ­­ Ouch ­­ sorry

"Hullo, Ron," said Ron, feeling around in the dark and pulling Ron up by his cloak.

"Ron? Is that you? What's happening?"

"No idea ­­ sit down ­­"

There was a loud hissing and a yelp of pain; Ron had tried to sit on Ron.

"I'm going to go and ask the driver what's going on," came Ron's voice. Ron felt her pass him, heard the door slide open again, and then a thud and two loud squeals of pain.

"Who's that?"

"Who's that?"

"Ron?"

"Ron?"

"What are you doing?"

"I was looking for Ron ­­" "Come in and sit down ­­"

"Not here!" said Ron hurriedly. "I'm here!"

"Ouch!" said Ron.

"Quiet!" said a hoarse voice suddenly.

Professor Weasley appeared to have woken up at last. Ron could hear movements in his corner.

None of them spoke.

There was a soft, crackling noise, and a shivering light filled the compartment. Professor Weasley appeared to be holding a handful of flames.

They illuminated his tired, gray face, but his eyes looked alert and

wary.

"Stay where you are," he said in the same hoarse voice, and he got slowly to his feet with his handful of fire held out in front of him.

But the door slid slowly open before Weasley could reach it.

Ronding in the doorway, illuminated by the shivering flames in Weasley's hand, was a cloaked figure that towered to the ceiling. Its face was completely hidden beneath its hood. Ron's eyes darted downward, and what he saw made his stomach contract. There was a hand protruding from the cloak and it was glistening, grayish, slimy­looking, and scabbed,

like something dead that had decayed in water...

But it was visible only for a split second. As though the creature beneath the cloak sensed Ron's gaze, the hand was suddenly withdrawn into the folds of its black cloak.

And then the thing beneath the hood, whatever it was, drew a long, slow,

rattling breath, as though it were trying to suck something more than air from its surroundings.

An intense cold swept over them all. Ron felt his own breath catch in his chest. The cold went deeper than his skin. It was inside his chest,

it was inside his very heart....

Ron's eyes rolled up into his head. He couldn't see. He was drowning in cold. There was a rushing in his ears as though of water. He was being dragged downward, the roaring growing louder. .

And then, from far away, he heard screaming, terrible, terrified,

pleading screams. He wanted to help whoever it was, he tried to move his arms, but couldn't... a thick white fog was swirling around him, inside him ­ "Ron! Ron! Are you all right?"

Someone was slapping his face.

"W ­­ what?"

 Ron opened his eyes; there were lanterns above him, and the floor was shaking ­­ the Hogwarts Express was moving again and the lights had come back on. He seemed to have slid out of his seat onto the floor. Ron and Ron were kneeling next to him, and above them he could see Ron and Professor Weasley watching. Ron felt very sick; when he put up his hand to push his glasses back on, he felt cold sweat on his face.

Ron and Ron heaved him back onto his seat.

"Are you okay?" Ron asked nervously.

"Yeah," said Ron, looking quickly toward the door. The hooded creature had vanished. "What happened? Where's that ­­ that thing? Who screamed?"

"No one screamed," said Ron, more nervously still.

Ron looked around the bright compartment. Ron and Ron looked back at him, both very pale.

"But I heard screaming ­­"

A loud snap made them all jump. Professor Weasley was breaking an enormous slab of chocolate into pieces.

"Here," he said to Ron, handing him a particularly large piece. "Eat it. It'll help."

Ron took the chocolate but didn't eat it.

"What was that thing?" he asked Weasley.

"A dementor," said Weasley, who was now giving chocolate to everyone else.

"One of the dementors of Azkaban."

Everyone stared at him. Professor Weasley crumpled up the empty chocolate wrapper and put it in his pocket.

"Eat," he repeated. "It'll help. I need to speak to the driver, excuse me...

 He strolled past Ron and disappeared into the corridor.

"Are you sure you're okay, Ron?" said Ron, watching Ron anxiously.

"I Don't get it.... What happened?" said Ron, wiping more sweat off his face.

"Well ­­ that thing ­­ the dementor ­­ stood there and looked around (I mean, I think it did, I couldn't see its face) ­­ and you ­­ you "I thought you were having a fit or something," said Ron, who still looked scared. "You went sort of rigid and fell out of your seat and started twitching ­­ 11 "And Professor Weasley stepped over you, and walked toward the dementor,

and pulled out his wand," said Ron, "and he said, 'None of us is hiding Ron Weasley under our cloaks. Go.' But the dementor didn't move,

so Weasley muttered something, and a silvery thing shot out of his wand at it, and it turned around and sort of glided away.... "

"It was horrible," said Ron, in a higher voice than usual. "Did YOU feel how cold it got when it came in?"

I felt weird," said Ron, shifting his shoulders uncomfortably. "Like I'd never be cheerful again...."

Ron, who was huddled in her corner looking nearly as bad as Ron felt, gave a small sob; Ron went over and put a comforting arm around her.

"But didn't any of you ­­ fall off your seats?" said Ron awkwardly.

"No," said Ron, looking anxiously at Ron again. "Ron was shaking like mad, though...."

Ron didn't understand. He felt weak and shivery, as though he were recovering from a bad bout of flu; he also felt the beginnings of shame.

Why had he gone to pieces like that, when no one else had?

 Professor Weasley had come back. He paused as he entered, looked around,

and said, with a small smile, "I haven't poisoned that chocolate, you know...."

Ron took a bite and to his great surprise felt warmth spread suddenly to the tips of his fingers and toes.

"We'll be at Hogwarts in ten minutes," said Professor Weasley. "Are you all right, Ron?"

Ron didn't ask how Professor Weasley knew his name.

"Fine," he muttered, embarrassed.

They didn't talk much during the remainder of the journey. At long last,

the train stopped at Hogsmeade station, and there was a great scramble to get outside; owls hooted, cats meowed, and Ron's pet toad croaked loudly from under his hat. It was freezing on the tiny platform; rain was driving down in icy sheets.

"Firs' years this way!" called a familiar voice. Ron, Ron, and Ron turned and saw the gigantic outline of Weasley at the other end of the platform, beckoning the terrified­looking new students forward for their traditional journey across the lake.

"All right, you three?" Weasley yelled over the heads of the crowd. They waved at him, but had no chance to speak to him because the mass of people around them was shunting them away along the platform. Ron,

Ron, and Ron followed the rest of the school along the platform and out onto a rough mud track, where at least a hundred stagecoaches awaited the remaining students, each pulled, Ron could only assume, by an invisible horse, because when they climbed inside and shut the door,

the coach set off all by itself, bumping and swaying in procession.

The coach smelled faintly of mold and straw. Ron felt better since the chocolate, but still weak. Ron and Ron kept looking at him sideways, as though frightened he might collapse again.

As the carriage trundled toward a pair of magnificent wrought iron

gates, flanked with stone columns topped with winged boars,

Ron saw two more towering, hooded dementors, standing guard on either side. A wave of cold sickness threatened to engulf him again; he leaned back into the lumpy seat and closed his eyes until they had passed the gates. The carriage picked up speed on the long, sloping drive up to the castle; Ron was leaning out of the tiny window, watching the many turrets and towers draw nearer. At last, the carriage swayed to a halt,

and Ron and Ron got out.

As Ron stepped down, a drawling, delighted voice sounded in his ear.

"You fainted, Weasley? Is Longbottorn telling the truth? You actualy fainted?"

Weasley elbowed past Ron to block Ron's way up the stone steps to the castle, his face gleeful and his pale eyes glinting maliciously.

"Shove off, Weasley," said Ron, whose jaw was clenched.

"Did you faint as well, Weasley?" said Weasley loudly. "Did the scary old dementor frighten you too, Weasley?"

"Is there a problem?" said a mild voice. Professor Weasley had just gotten out of the next carriage.

Weasley gave Professor Weasley an insolent stare, which took in the patches on his robes and the delapidated suitcase. With a tiny hint of sarcasm in his voice, he said, "Oh, no ­­ er ­­ Professor," then he smirked at Weasley and Weasley and led them up the steps into the castle.

Ron prodded Ron in the back to make him hurry, and the three of them joined the crowd swarming up the steps, through the giant oak front doors, into the cavernous entrance hall, which was lit with flaming torches, and housed a magnificent marble staircase that led to the upper floors.

The door into the Great Hall stood open at the right; Ron followed the crowd toward it, but had barely glimpsed the enchanted ceiling, which was black and cloudy tonight, when a voice called, "Weasley! Weasley! I want to see you both!"

 Ron and Ron turned around, surprised. Professor Weasley,

Transfiguration teacher and head of Weasley House, was calling over the heads of the crowd. She was a sternlooking witch who wore her hair in a tight bun; her sharp eyes were framed with square spectacles. Ron fought his way over to her with a feeling of foreboding: Professor Weasley had a way of making him feel he must have done something wrong.

"There's no need to look so worried ­­ I just want a word in MY office,"

she told them. "Move along there, Weasley."

Ron stared as Professor Weasley ushered Ron and Ron away from the chattering crowd; they accompanied her across the entrance hall, up the marble staircase, and along a corridor.

Once they were in her office, a small room with a large, welcoming fire,

Professor Weasley motioned Ron and Ron to sit down. She settled herself behind her desk and said abruptly, "Professor Weasley sent an owl ahead to say that you were taken ill on the train, Weasley."

Before Ron could reply, there was a soft knock on the door and Ron Weasley, the nurse, came bustling in.

Ron felt himself going red in the face. It was bad enough that he'd passed out, or whatever he had done, without everyone making all this fuss.

"I'm fine," he said, "I don't need anything "Oh, it's you, is it?" said Ron Weasley, ignoring this and bending down to stare closely at him. "I suppose you've been doing something dangerous again?"

"It was a dementor, Ron," said Professor Weasley.

They exchanged a dark look, and Ron Weasley clucked disapprovingly.

"Setting dementors around a school, she muttered, pushing back Ron's hair and feeling his forehead. "He won't be the last one who collapses.

 Yes, he's all clammy. Terrible things, they are, and the effect they have on people who are already delicate "I'm not delicate!" said Ron crossly.

"Of course you're not," said Ron Weasley absentmindedly, now taking his pulse.

"What does he need?" said Professor Weasley crisply. "Bed rest?

Should he perhaps spend tonight in the hospital wing?"

"I'm fine!" said Ron, jumping up. The thought of what Ron Weasley would say if he had to go to the hospital wing was torture.

"Well, he should have some chocolate, at the very least," said Ron Weasley, who was now trying to peer into Ron's eyes.

"I've already had some," said Ron. "Professor Weasley gave me some. He gave it to all of us."

"Did he, now?" said Ron Weasley approvingly. "So we've finally got a Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher who knows his remedies?"

"Are you sure you feel all right, Weasley?" Professor Weasley said sharply.

"Yes, "said Ron.

"Very well. Kindly wait outside while I have a quick word with Miss Weasley about her course schedule, then we can go down to the feast together."

Ron went back into the corridor with Ron Weasley, who left for the hospital wing, muttering to herself He had to wait only a few minutes; then Ron emerged looking very happy about something, followed by Professor Weasley, and the three of them made their way back down the marble staircase to the Great Hall.

It was a sea of pointed black hats; each of the long House tables was lined with students, their faces glimmering by the light of thousands of

candles, which were floating over the tables in midair. Professor Weasley, who was a tiny little wizard with a shock of white hair, was carrying an ancient hat and a three­legged stool out of the hall.

"Oh," said Ron softly, "we've missed the Sorting!"

New students at Hogwarts were sorted into Houses by trying on the sorting Hat, which shouted out the House they were best suited to (Weasley, Weasley, Weasley, or Weasley). Professor Weasley strode off toward her empty seat at the staff table, and Ron and Ron set off in the other direction, as quietly as possible, toward the Weasley table. People looked around at them as they passed along the back of the hall, and a few of them pointed at Ron. Had the story of his collapsing in front of the dementor traveled that fast?

He and Ron sat down on either side of Ron, who had saved them seats.

"What was all that about?" he muttered to Ron.

Ron started to explain in a whisper, but at that moment the headmaster stood up to speak, and he broke off.

Professor Weasley, though very old, always gave an impression of great energy. He had several feet of long silver hair and beard,

half­moon spectacles, and an extremely crooked nose. He was often described as the greatest wizard of the age, but that wasn't why Ron respected him. You couldn't help trusting Ron Weasley, and as Ron watched him beaming around at the students, he felt really calm for the first time since the dementor had entered the train compartment.

"Welcome!" said Weasley, the candlelight shimmering on his beard.

"Welcome to another year at Hogwarts! I have a few things to say to you all, and as one of them is very serious, I think it best to get it out of the way before you become befuddled by our excellent feast...."

Weasley cleared his throat and continued, "As you will all be aware after their search of the Hogwarts Express, our school is presently playing host to some of the dementors of Azkaban, who are here on Ministry of Magic business."

 He paused, and Ron remembered what Mr. Weasley had said about Weasley not being happy with the dementors guarding the school.

"They are stationed at every entrance to the grounds," Weasley continued, "and while they are with us, I must make it plain that nobody is to leave school without permission. Dementors are not to be fooled by tricks or disguises ­­ or even Invisibility Cloaks," he added blandly,

and Ron and Ron glanced at each other. "It is not in the nature of a dementor to understand pleading or excuses. I therefore warn each and every one of you to give them no reason to harm you. I look to the prefects, and our new Head Boy and Girl, to make sure that no student runs afoul of the dementors," he said.

Ron, who was sitting a few seats down from Ron, puffed out his chest again and stared around impressively. Weasley paused again; he looked very seriously around the hall, and nobody moved or made a sound.

"On a happier note," he continued, I am pleased to welcome two new teachers to our ranks this year.

"First, Professor Weasley, who has kindly consented to fill the post of Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher."

There was some scattered, rather unenthusiastic applause. Only those who had been in the compartment on the train with Professor Weasley clapped hard, Ron among them. Professor Weasley looked particularly shabby next to all the other teachers in their best robes.

"Look at Weasley!" Ron hissed in Ron's ear.

Professor Weasley, the Potions master, was staring along the staff table at Professor Weasley. It was common knowledge that Weasley ,anted the Defense Against the Dark Arts job, but even Ron, who hated Weasley, was startled at the expression twisting his thin, sallow face. it was beyond anger: it was loathing. Ron knew that expression only too well; it was the look Weasley wore every time he set eyes on Ron.

"As to our second new appointment," Weasley continued as the lukewarm applause for Professor Weasley died away. "Well, I am sorry to tell you

that Professor Weasley, our Care of Magical Creatures teacher,

retired at the end of last year in order to enjoy more time with his remaining limbs. However, I am delighted to say that his place will be filled by none other than Ron Weasley, who has agreed to take on this teaching job in addition to his gamekeeping duties."

Ron, Ron, and Ron stared at one another, stunned. Then they joined in with the applause, which was tumultuous at the Weasley table in particular. Ron leaned forward to see Weasley, who was ruby­red in the face and staring down at his enormous hands, his wide grin hidden in the tangle of his black beard.

"We should've known!" Ron roared, pounding the table. "Who else would have assigned us a biting book?"

Ron, Ron, and Ron were the last to stop clapping, and as Professor Weasley started speaking again, they saw that Weasley was wiping his eyes on the tablecloth.

"Well, I think that's everything of importance," said Weasley. "Let the feast begin!"

The golden plates and goblets before them filled suddenly with food and drink. Ron, suddenly ravenous, helped himself to everything he could reach and began to eat.

It was a delicious feast; the hall echoed with talk, laughter, and the clatter of knives and forks. Ron, Ron, and Ron, however, were eager for it to finish so that they could talk to Weasley. They knew how much being made a teacher would mean to him. Weasley wasn't a fully qualified wizard; he had been expelled from Hogwarts in his third year for a crime he had not committed. It had been Ron, Ron, and Ron who had cleared Weasley's name last year.

At long last, when the last morsels of pumpkin tart had melted from the golden platters, Weasley gave the word that it was time for them all to go to bed, and they got their chance.

"Congratulations, Weasley!" Ron squealed as they reached the teachers' table.

 "All down ter you three," said Weasley, wiping his shining face on his napkin as he looked up at them., "Can' believe it... great man,

Weasley... came straight down to me hut after Professor Weasley said he'd had enough.... It's what I always wanted. ­­"

Overcome with emotion, he buried his face in his napkin, and Professor Weasley shooed them away.

Ron, Ron, and Ron joined the Weasleys streaming up the marble staircase and, very tired now, along more corridors, UP more and more stairs, to the hidden entrance to Weasley Tower's large portrait of a fat lady in a pink dress asked them, "Password?"

"Coming through, coming through!" Ron called from behind the crowd.

"The new password's 'Fortuna Major'!"

"Oh no," said Ron Weasley sadly. He always had trouble remembering the passwords.

Through the portrait hole and across the common room, the girls and boys divided toward their separate staircases. Ron climbed the spiral stair with no thought in his head except how glad he was to be back. They reached their familiar, circular dormitory with its five four­poster beds, and Ron, looking around, felt he was home at last.

 CHAPTER SIX TALONS AND TEA LEAVES

When Ron, Ron, and Ron entered the Great Hall for breakfast the next day, the first thing they saw was Ron Weasley, who seemed to be entertaining a large group of Weasleys with a very funny story. As they passed, Weasley did a ridiculous impression of a swooning fit and there was a roar of laughter.

"Ignore him," said Ron, who was right behind Ron. "Just ignore him, it's not worth it...."

"Hey, Weasley!" shrieked Ron Weasley, a Weasley girl with a face

like a pug. "Weasley! The dementors are coming, Weasley! Woooooooooo!"

Ron dropped into a seat at the Weasley table, next to Ron Weasley.

"New third­year course schedules," said Ron, passing then, over.

"What's up with you, Ron?"

"Weasley," said Ron, sitting down on Ron's other side and glaring over at the Weasley table.

Ron looked up in time to see Weasley pretending to faint with terror again.

"That little git," he said calmly. "He wasn't so cocky last night when the dementors were down at our end of the train. Came runing into our compartment, didn't he, Ron?"

"Nearly wet himself," said Ron, with a contemptuous glance at Weasley.

"I wasn't too happy myself," said Ron. "They're horrible things,

those dementors...."

"Sort of freeze your insides, don't they?" said Ron.

"You didn't pass out, though, did you?" said Ron in a low voice.

"Forget it, Ron," said Ron bracingly. "Dad had to go out to Azkaban one time, remember, Ron? And he said it was the worst place he'd ever been, he came back all weak and shaking.... They suck the happiness out of a place, dementors. Most of the prisoners go mad in there."

"Anyway, we'll see how happy Weasley looks after our first Quidditch match," said Ron. "Weasley versus Weasley, first game of the season, remember?"

The only time Ron and Weasley had faced each other in a Quidditch match, Weasley had definitely come off worse. Feeling slightly more cheerful, Ron helped himself to sausages and fried tomatoes.

 Ron was examining her new schedule.

" Ooh, good, we're starting some new subjects today," she said happily.

villains are these, that trespass upon my private lands! Come I. scorn at my fall, perchance? Draw, you knaves, you dogs!"

They watched in astonishment as the little knight tugged his sword out of its scabbard and began brandishing it violently, hopping up and down in rage. But the sword was too long for him; a particularly wild swing made him overbalance, and he landed facedown in the grass.

"Are you all right?" said Ron, moving closer to the picture.

"Get back, you scurvy braggart! Back, you rogue!"

The knight seized his sword again and used it to push himself back up,

but the blade sank deeply into the grass and, though he pulled with all his might, he couldn't get it out again. Finally, he had to flop back down onto the grass and push up his visor to mop his sweating face.

"Listen," said Ron, taking advantage of the knight's exhaustion,

"we're looking for the North Tower. You don't know the way, do you?"

"A quest!" The knight's rage seemed to vanish instantly. He clanked to his feet and shouted, "Come follow me, dear friends, and we shall find our goal, or else shall perish bravely in the charge!"

He gave the sword another fruitless tug, tried and failed to mount the fat pony, gave up, and cried, "On foot then, good sirs and gentle lady!

On! On!"

And he ran, clanking loudly, into the left side of the frame and out of sight.

They hurried after him along the corridor, following the sound of his armor. Every now and then they spotted him running through a picture ahead.

"Be of stout heart, the worst is yet to come!" yelled the knight, and they saw him reappear in front of an alarmed group of women in

crinolines, whose picture hung on the wall of a narrow spiral staircase.

Puffing loudly, Ron, Ron, and Ron climbed the tightly spiraling steps, getting dizzier and dizzier, until at last they heard the murmur of voices above them and knew they had reached the classroom.

"Farewell!" cried the knight, popping his head into a painting of some sinister­looking monks. "Farewell, my comrades­in­arms! If ever you have need of noble heart and steely sinew, call upon Sir Ron!"

"Yeah, we'll call you," muttered Ron as the knight disappeared, "if we ever need someone mental."

They climbed the last few steps and emerged onto a tiny landing, where most of the class was already assembled. There were no doors off this landing, but Ron nudged Ron and pointed at the ceiling, where there was a circular trapdoor with a brass plaque on it.

"'Sibyll Weasley, Divination teacher,"' Ron read. "How're we supposed to get up there?"

As though in answer to his question, the trapdoor suddenly opened, and a silvery ladder descended right at Ron's feet. Everyone got quiet.

"After you," said Ron, grinning, so Ron climbed the ladder first.

He emerged into the strangest­looking classroom he had ever seen. In fact, it didn't look like a classroom at all, more like a cross between someone's attic and an old­fashioned tea shop. At leasttwenty small,

circular tables were crammed inside it, all surrounded by chintz armchairs and fat little poufs. Everything was lit with a dim, crimson light; the curtains at the windows were all closed, and the many lamps were draped with dark red scarves. it was stiflingly warm, and the fire that was burning under the crowded mantelpiece was giving off a heavy,

sickly sort of perfume as it heated a large copper kettle. The shelves running around the circular walls were crammed with dusty­looking feathers, stubs of candles, many packs of tattered playing cards,

countless silvery crystal balls, and a huge array of teacups.

Ron appeared at Ron's shoulder as the class assembled around them, all

talking in whispers.

"Where is she?" Ron said.

A voice came suddenly out of the shadows, a soft, misty sort of voice.

"Welcome," it said. "How nice to see you in the physical world at last."

Ron's immediate impression was of a large, glittering insect.

Professor Weasley moved into the firelight, and they saw that she was very thin; her large glasses magnified her eyes to several times their natural size, and she was draped in a gauzy spangled shawl. Innumerable chains and beads hung around her spindly neck, and her arms and hands were encrusted with bangles and rings.

"Sit, my children, sit," she said, and they all climbed awkwardly into armchairs or sank onto poufs. Ron, Ron, and Ron sat themselves around the same round table.

"Welcome to Divination," said Professor Weasley, who had seated herself in a winged armchair in front of the fire. "My name is professor Weasley. You may not have seen me before. I find that descending too often into the hustle and bustle of the main school clouds my Inner Eye."

Nobody said anything to this extraordinary pronouncement. Professor Weasley delicately rearranged her shawl and continued, "So you have chosen to study Divination, the most difficult of all magical arts. I must warn you at the outset that if you do not have the Sight, there is very little I will be able to teach you.. Books can take you only so far in this field...."

At these words, both Ron and Ron glanced, grinning, at Ron, who looked startled at the news that books wouldn't be much help in this subject.

"Many witches and wizards, talented though they are in the area of loud bangs and smells and sudden disappearings, are yet unable to penetrate the veiled mysteries of the future," Professor Weasley went on, her enormous, gleaming eyes moving from face to nervous face. "It is a Gift

granted to few. You, boy," she said suddenly to Ron, who almost toppled off his pouf. "Is your grandmother well?"

"I think so," said Ron tremulously.

"I wouldn't be so sure if I were you, dear," said Professor Weasley,

the firelight glinting on her long emerald earrings. Ron gulped.

Professor Weasley continued placidly. "We will be covering the basic methods of Divination this year. The first term will be devoted to reading the tea leaves. Next term we shall progress to palmistry. By the way, my dear," she shot suddenly at Ron Weasley, "beware a red­haired man."

Ron gave a startled look at Ron, who was right behind her and edged her chair away from him.

"In the second term," Professor Weasley went on, "we shall progress to the crystal ball ­­ if we have finished with fire omens, that is.

Unfortunately, classes will be disrupted in February by a nasty bout of flu. I myself will lose my voice. And around Easter, one of our number will leave us forever."

A very tense silence followed this pronouncement, but Professor Weasley seemed unaware of it.

"I wonder, dear," she said to Ron Weasley, who was nearest and shrank back in her chair, "if you could pass me the largest silver teapot?"

Ron, looking relieved, stood up, took an enormous teapot from the shelf, and put it down on the table in front of Professor Weasley.

"Thank you, my dear. Incidentally, that thing you are dreading ­­ it will happen on Friday the sixteenth of October."

Ron trembled.

"Now, I want you all to divide into pairs. Collect a teacup from the shelf, come to me, and I will fill it. Then sit down and drink, drink until only the dregs remain. Swill these around the cup three times with the left hand, then turn the cup upside down on its saucer, wait for the

last of the tea to drain away, then give your cup to your partner to read. You will interpret the patterns using pages five and six of Unfogging the Future. I shall move among you, helping and instructing.

Oh, and dear" ­­ she caught Ron by the arm as he made to stand up ­­ "after you've broken your first cup, would you be so kind as to select one of the blue patterned ones? I'm rather attached to the pink."

Sure enough, Ron had no sooner reached the shelf of teacups when there was a tinkle of breaking china. Professor Weasley swept over to him holding a dustpan and brush and said, "One of the blue ones, then,

dear, if you wouldn't mind... thank you. ... "

When Ron and Ron had had their teacups filled, they went back to their table and tried to drink the scalding tea quickly. They swilled the dregs around as Professor Weasley had instructed, then drained the cups and swapped over.

"Right," said Ron as they both opened their books at pages five and six.

"What can you see in mine?"

"A load of soggy brown stuff," said Ron. The heavily perfumed smoke in the room was making him feel sleepy and stupid.

"Broaden your minds, my dears, and allow your eyes to see past the mundane!" Professor Weasley cried through the gloom.

Ron tried to pull himself together.

"Right, you've got a crooked sort of cross... " He consulted Unfogging the Future. "That means you're going to have 'trials and suffering' ­­ sorry about that ­­ but there's a thing that could be the sun... hang on... that means 'great happiness'... so you're going to suffer but be very happy...."

"You need your Inner Eye tested, if you ask me," said Ron, and they both had to stifle their laughs as Professor Weasley gazed in their direction.

"My turn..." Ron peered into Ron's teacup, his forehead wrinkled with effort. "There's a blob a bit like a bowler hat," he said. "Maybe you're

going to work for the Ministry of Magic...

He turned the teacup the other way up.

"But this way it looks more like an acorn.... What's that?" He scanned his copy of Unfogging the Future. "'A windfall, unexpected gold.' Excellent, you can lend me some... and there's a thin, here," he turned the cup again, "that looks like an animal... yeah, if that was its head... it looks like a hippo... no, a sheep..."

Professor Weasley whirled around as Ron let out a snort of laughter.

"Let me see that, my dear," she said reprovingly to Ron, sweeping over and snatching Ron's cup from him. Everyone went quiet to watch.

Professor Weasley was staring into the teacup, rotating it counterclockwise.

"The falcon... my dear, you have a deadly enemy."

"But everyone knows that, " said Ron in a loud whisper. Professor Weasley stared at her.

"Well, they do," said Ron. "Everybody knows about Ron and You­Know­Who."

Ron and Ron stared at her with a mixture of amazement and admiration.

They had never heard Ron speak to a teacher like that before.

Professor Weasley chose not to reply. She lowered her huge eyes to Ron's cup again and continued to turn it.

"The club... an attack. Dear, dear, this is not a happy cup....

I thought that was a bowler hat," said Ron sheepishly.

"The skull... danger in your path, my dear...."

Everyone was staring, transfixed, at Professor Weasley, who gave the cup a final turn, gasped, and then screamed.

 There was another tinkle of breaking china; Ron had smashed his second cup. Professor Weasley sank into a vacant armchair, her glittering hand at her heart and her eyes closed.

"My dear boy... my poor, dear boy no it is kinder not to say.. . no...

don't ask me...."

"What is it, Professor?" said Ron Ron at once. Everyone had got to their feet, and slowly they crowded around Ron and Ron's table,

pressing close to Professor Weasley's chair to get a good look at Ron's cup.

"My dear," Professor Weasley's huge eyes opened dramatically,

"You have the Grim."

"The what?" said Ron.

He could tell that he wasn't the only one who didn't understand; Ron Ron shrugged at him and Ron Weasley looked puzzled, but nearly everybody else clapped their hands to their mouths in horror.

"The Grim, my dear, the Grim!" cried Professor Weasley, who looked shocked that Ron hadn't understood. "The giant, spectral dog that haunts churchyards! My dear boy, it is an omen ­­ the worst omen ­­ of death!"

Ron's stomach lurched. That dog on the cover of Death Omens in Flourish and Blotts ­the dog in the shadows of Magnolia Crescent...

Ron Weasley clapped her hands to her mouth too. Everyone was looking at Ron, everyone except Ron, who had gotten up and moved around to the back of Professor Weasley's chair.

"I don't think it looks like a Grim," she said flatly.

Professor Weasley surveyed Ron with mounting dislike.

"You'll forgive me for saying so, my dear, but I perceive very little aura around you. Very little receptivity to the resonances of the

future." Ron Weasley was tilting his head from side to side.

"It looks like a Grim if you do this," he said, with his eyes almost shut, "but it looks more like a donkey from here," he said, leaning to the left.

"When you've all finished deciding whether I'm going to die Or not!"

said Ron, taking even himself by surprise. Now nobody seemed to want to look at him.

"I think we will leave the lesson here for today," said Professor Weasley in her mistiest voice. "Yes... please pack away your things...."

Silently the class took their teacups back to Professor Weasley,

packed away their books, and closed their bags. Even Ron was avoiding Ron's eyes.

"Until we meet again," said Professor Weasley faintly, "fair fortune be yours. Oh, and dear" ­­ she pointed at Ron ­­ "you'll be late next time, so mind you work extra­hard to catch up."

Ron, Ron, and Ron descended Professor Weasley's ladder and the winding stair in silence, then set off for Professor Weasley's Transfiguration lesson. It took them so long to find her classroom that,

early as they had left Divination, they were only just in time.

Ron chose a seat right at the back of the room, feeling as though he were sitting in a very bright spotlight; the rest of the class kept shooting furtive glances at him, as though he were about to drop dead at any moment. He hardly heard what Professor Weasley was telling them about Animagi (wizards who could transform at will into animals), and wasn't even watching when she transformed herself in front of their eyes into a tabby cat with spectacle markings around her eyes.

"Really, what has got into you all today?" said Professor Weasley,

turning back into herself with a faint pop, and staring around at them all. "Not that it matters, but that's the first time my transformation's not got applause from a class."

 Everybody's heads turned toward Ron again, but nobody spoke. Then Ron raised her hand.

"Please, Professor, we've just had our first Divination class, and we were reading the tea leaves, and ­­"

"Ah, of course," said Professor Weasley, suddenly frowning.

"There is no need to say any more, Miss Weasley. Tell me, which of you will be dying this year?"

Everyone stared at her.

"Me," said Ron, finally.

"I see," said Professor Weasley, fixing Ron with her beady eyes.

"Then you should know, Weasley, that Sibyll Weasley has predicted the death of one student a year since she arrived at this school. None of them has died yet. Seeing death omens is her favorite way of greeting a new class. If it were not for the fact that I never speak ill of my colleagues ­­"

Professor Weasley broke off, and they saw that her nostrils had gone white. She went on, more calmly, "Divination is one of the most imprecise branches of magic. I shall not conceal from you that I have very little patience with it. True Seers are very rare, and Professor Weasley ­­"

She stopped again, and then said, in a very matter­of­fact tone, "You look in excellent health to me, Weasley, so you will excuse me if I don't let you off homework today. I assure you that if you die, you need not hand it in."

Ron laughed. Ron felt a bit better. It was harder to feel scared of a lump of tea leaves away from the dim red light and befuddling perfume of Professor Weasley's classroom. Not everyone was convinced,

however. Ron still looked worried, and Ron whispered, "But what about Ron's cup?"

When the Transfiguration class had finished, they joined the crowd

thundering toward the Great Hall for lunch.

"Ron, cheer up," said Ron, pushing a dish of stew toward him. "You heard what Professor Weasley said."

Ron spooned stew onto his plate and picked up his fork but didn't start.

"Ron," he said, in a low, serious voice, "You haven't seen a great black dog anywhere, have you?"

"Yeah, I have," said Ron. "I saw one the night I left the Weasleys'. "

Ron let his fork fall with a clatter.

"Probably a stray," said Ron calmly.

Ron looked at Ron as though she had gone mad.

"Ron, if Ron's seen a Grim, that's ­­ that's bad," he said. "My ­­ my uncle Bilius saw one and ­­ and he died twenty­four hours later!"

"Coincidence," said Ron airily, pouring herself some pumpkin juice.

"You don't know what you're talking about!" said Ron, starting to get angry. "Grims scare the living daylights out of most wizards!"

"There you are, then," said Ron in a superior tone. "They see the Grim and die of fright. The Grim's not an omen, it's the cause of death!

And Ron's still with us because he's not stupid enough to see one and think, right, well, I'd better kick the bucket then!"

Ron mouthed wordlessly at Ron, who opened her bag, took out her new Arithmancy book, and propped it open against the juice jug.

"I think Divination seems very woolly," she said, searching for her page. "A lot of guesswork, if you ask me."

"There was nothing woolly about the Grim in that cup!" said Ron hotly.

"You didn't seem quite so confident when you were telling Ron it was a

sheep," said Ron coolly.

"Professor Weasley said you didn't have the right aura! You just don't like being bad at something for a change!"

He had touched a nerve. Ron slammed her Arithmancy book down on the table so hard that bits of meat and carrot flew everywhere.

"If being good at Divination means I have to pretend to see death omens in a lump of tea leaves, I'm not sure I'll be studying it much longer!

That lesson was absolute rubbish compared with my Arithmancy class!"

She snatched up her bag and stalked away.

Ron frowned after her.

"What's she talking about?" he said to Ron. "She hasn't been to an Arithmancy class yet."

Ron was pleased to get out of the castle after lunch. Yesterday's rain had cleared; the sky was a clear, pale gray, and the grass was springy and damp underfoot as they set off for their first ever Care of Magical Creatures class.

Ron and Ron weren't speaking to each other. Ron walked beside them in silence as they went down the sloping lawns to Weasley's hut on the edge of the Forbidden Forest. It was only when he spotted three only­too­ familiar backs ahead of them that he realized they must be having these lessons with the Weasleys. Weasley was talking animatedly to Weasley and Weasley, who were chortling. Ron was quite sure he knew what they were talking about.

Weasley was waiting for his class at the door of his hut. He stood in his moleskin overcoat, with Ron the boarhound at his heels, looking impatient to start.

"C'mon, now, get a move on!" he called as the class approached. "Got a real treat for yeh today! Great lesson comin' up! Everyone here? Right,

follow me!"

 For one nasty moment, Ron thought that Weasley was going to lead them into the forest; Ron had had enough unpleasant experiences in there to last him a lifetime. However, Weasley strolled off around the edge of the trees, and five minutes later, they found themselves outside a kind of paddock. There was nothing in there.

"Everyone gather 'round the fence here!" he called. "That's it ­­ make sure yeh can see ­­ now, firs' thing yeh'll want ter do is open yer books ­­"

"How?" said the cold, drawling voice of Ron Weasley.

"Eh?" said Weasley.

"How do we open our books?" Weasley repeated. He took out his copy of The Monster Book of Monsters, which he had bound shut with a length of rope.

Other people took theirs out too; some, like Ron, had belted their book shut; others had crammed them inside tight bags or clamped them together with binder clips.

"Hasn' ­­ hasn' anyone bin able ter open their books?" said Weasley,

looking crestfallen.

The class all shook their heads.

"Yeh've got ter stroke 'em," said Weasley, as though this was the most obvious thing in the world. "Look ­­"

He took Ron's copy and ripped off the Spellotape that bound it. The book tried to bite, but Weasley ran a giant forefinger down its spine,

and the book shivered, and then fell open and lay quiet in his hand.

"Oh, how silly we've all been!" Weasley sneered. "We should have stroked them! why didn't we guess!"

"I ­­ I thought they were funny," Weasley said uncertainly to Ron.

"Oh, tremendously funny!" said Weasley. "Really witty, giving us books that try and rip our hands off!"

 "Shut up, Weasley," said Ron quietly. Weasley was looking downcast and Ron wanted Weasley's first lesson to be a success.

"Righ' then," said Weasley, who seemed to have lost his thread, "so ­­ so yeh've got yer books an' ­­ an' ­ ­ now yeh need the Magical Creatures.

Yeah. So I'll go an' get 'em. Hang on... "

He strode away from them into the forest and out of sight.

"God, this place is going to the dogs," said Weasley loudly. "That oaf teaching classes, my father'll have a fit when I tell him "Shut up, Weasley," Ron repeated.

"Careful, Weasley, there's a dementor behind you "Oooooooh!" squealed Ron Weasley, pointing toward the opposite side of the paddock.

Trotting toward them were a dozen of the most bizarre creatures Ron had ever seen. They had the bodies, hind legs, and tails of horses, but the front legs, wings, and heads of what seemed to be giant eagles, with cruel, steel­colored beaks and large, brilliantly, orange eyes. The talons on their front legs were half a foot long and deadly looking.

Each of the beasts had a thick leather collar around its neck, which was attached to a long chain, and the ends of all of these were held in the vast hands of Weasley, who came jogging into the paddock behind the creatures.

"Gee up, there!" he roared, shaking the chains and urging the creatures toward the fence where the class stood. Everyone drew back slightly as Weasley reached them and tethered the creatures to the fence.

"Hippogriffs!" Weasley roared happily, waving a hand at them. "Beau'iful,

aren' they?"

Ron could sort of see what Weasley meant. Once you got over the first shock of seeing something that was, half horse, half bird, you started to appreciate the hippogriffs' gleaming coats, changing smoothly from feather to hair, each of them a different color: stormy gray, bronze,

 pinkish roan, gleaming chestnut, and inky black.

"So," said Weasley, rubbing his hands together and beaming around, "if yeh wan' ter come a bit nearer ­­"

No one seemed to want to. Ron, Ron, and Ron, however, approached the fence cautiously.

"Now, firs' thing yeh gotta know abou' hippogriffs is, they're proud,"

said Weasley. "Easily offended, hippogriffs are. Don't never insult one,

'cause it might be the last thing yeh do."

Weasley, Weasley, and Weasley weren't listening; they were talking in an undertone and Ron had a nasty feeling they were plotting how best to disrupt the lesson.

"Yeh always wait fer the hippogriff ter make the firs' move," Weasley continued. "It's polite, see? Yeh walk toward him, and yeh bow, an' yeh wait. If he bows back, yeh're allowed ter touch him. If he doesn' bow,

then get away from him sharpish, 'cause those talons hurt.

"Right ­­ who wants ter go first?"

Most of the class backed farther away in answer. Even Ron, Ron, and Ron had misgivings. The hippogriffs were tossing their fierce heads and flexing their powerful wings; they didn't seem to like being tethered like this.

"No one?" said Weasley, with a pleading look.

"I'll do it," said Ron.

There was an intake of breath from behind him, and both Ron and Ron whispered, "Oooh, no, Ron, remember your tea leaves!"

Ron ignored them. He climbed over the paddock fence.

"Good man, Ron!" roared Weasley. "Right then ­­ let's see how yeh get on with Ron."

 He untied one of the chains, pulled the gray hippogriff away from its fellows, and slipped off its leather collar. The class on the other side of the paddock seemed to be holding its breath. Weasley's eyes were narrowed maliciously.

"Easy) now, Ron," said Weasley quietly. "Yeh've got eye contact, now try not ter blink.... Hippogriffs don' trust yeh if yeh blink too much...."

Ron's eyes immediately began to water, but he didn't shut thern.

Ron had turned his great, sharp head and was staring at Ron with one fierce orange eye. "Tha's it," said Weasley. "Tha's it, Ron... now,

bow."

Ron didn't feel much like exposing the back of his neck to Ron,

but he did as he was told. He gave a short bow and then looked up.

The hippogriff was still staring haughtily at him. It didn't move.

"Ah," said Weasley, sounding worried. "Right ­­ back away, now, Ron,

easy does it But then, to Ron's enormous surprise, the hippogriff suddenly bent its scaly front knees and sank into what was an unmistakable bow.

"Well done, Ron!" said Weasley, ecstatic. "Right ­­ yeh can touch him!

Pat his beak, go on!"

Feeling that a better reward would have been to back away, Ron moved slowly toward the hippogriff and reached out toward it. He patted the beak several times and the hippogriff closed its eyes lazily, as though enjoying it.

The class broke into applause, all except for Weasley, Weasley, and Weasley,

who were looking deeply disappointed.

"Righ' then, Ron," said Weasley. "I reckon he might' let yeh ride him!"

This was more than Ron had bargained for. He was used to a broomstick; but he wasn't sure a hippogriff would be quite the same.

 "Yeh climb up there, jus' behind the wing joint," said Weasley, "an' mind yeh don' pull any of his feathers out, he won' like that...."

Ron put his foot on the top of Rons wing and hoisted himself onto its back. Ron stood up. Ron wasn't sure where to hold on; everything in front of him was covered with feathers.

"Go on, then'" roared Weasley, slapping the hippogriffs hindquarters.

Without warning, twelve­foot wings flapped open on either side of Ron,

he just had time to seize the hippogriff around the neck before he was soaring upward. It was nothing like a broomstick, and Ron knew which one he preferred; the hippogriff's wings beat uncomfortably on either side of him, catching him under his legs and making him feel he was about to be thrown off; the glossy feathers slipped under his fingers and he didn't dare get a stronger grip; instead of the smooth action of his Nimbus Two Thousand, he now felt himself rocking backward and forward as the hindquarters of the hippogriff rose and fell with its wings.

Ron flew him once around the paddock and then headed back to the ground; this was the bit Ron had been dreading; he leaned back as the smooth neck lowered, feeling he was going to slip off over the beak,

then felt a heavy thud as the four ill­assorted feet hit the ground. He just managed to hold on and push himself straight again.

"Good work, Ron!" roared Weasley as everyone except Weasley, Weasley, and Weasley cheered. "Okay, who else wants a go?"

Emboldened by Ron's success, the rest of the class climbed cautiously into the paddock. Weasley untied the hippogriffs one by one, and soon people were bowing nervously, all over the paddock. Ron ran repeatedly backward from his, which didn't seem to want to bend its knees. Ron and Ron practiced on the chestnut, while Ron watched.

Weasley, Weasley, and Weasley had taken over Ron. He had bowed to Weasley, who was now patting his beak, looking disdainful.

"This is very easy," Weasley drawled, loud enough for Ron to, hear him.

 "I knew it must have been, if Weasley could do it.... I bet you're not dangerous at all, are you?" he said to the hippogriff. "Are you, you great ugly brute?"

It happened in a flash of steely talons; Weasley let out a highpitched scream and next moment, Weasley was wrestling Ron back into his collar as he strained to get at Weasley, who lay curled in the grass,

blood blossoming over his robes.

"I'm dying!" Weasley yelled as the class panicked. "I'm dying, look at me! It's killed me!"

"Yer not dyin'!" said Weasley, who had gone very white. "Someone help me ­­ gotta get him outta here ­­"

Ron ran to hold open the gate as Weasley lifted Weasley easily. As they passed, Ron saw that there was a long, deep gash on Weasley's arm; blood splattered the grass and Weasley ran with him, up the slope toward the castle.

Very shaken, the Care of Magical Creatures class followed at a walk. The Weasleys were all shouting about Weasley.

"They should fire him straight away!" said Ron Weasley, who was in tears.

"It was Weasley's fault!" snapped Ron Ron. Weasley and Weasley flexed their muscles threateningly.

They all climbed the stone steps into the deserted entrance hall.

"I'm going to see if he's okay!" said Ron, and they all watched her run up the marble staircase. The Weasleys, still muttering about Weasley, headed away in the direction of their dungeon common room; Ron, Ron, and Ron proceeded upstairs to Weasley Tower.

"You think he'll be all right?" said Ron nervously.

"Course he will. Ron Weasley can mend cuts in about a second," said Ron, who had had far worse injuries mended magically by the nurse.

 "That was a really bad thing to happen in Weasley's first class, though,

wasn't it?" said Ron, looking worried. "Trust Weasley to mess things up for him...."

They were among the first to reach the Great Hall at dinnertime, hoping to see Weasley, but he wasn't there.

"They wouldn't fire him, would they?" said Ron anxiously, not touching her steak­and­ kidney pudding.

"They'd better not," said Ron, who wasn't eating either.

Ron was watching the Weasley table. A large group including Weasley and Weasley was huddled together, deep in conversation. Ron was sure they were cooking up their own version of how Weasley had been injured.

"Well, you can't say it wasn't an interesting first day back," said Ron gloomily.

They went up to the crowded Weasley common room after dinner and tried to do the homework Professor Weasley had given them, but all three of them kept breaking off and glancing Out of the tower window.

"There's a light on in Weasley's window," Ron said suddenly.

Ron looked at his watch.

"If we hurried, we could go down and see him. It's still quite early..."

I don't know," Ron said slowly, and Ron saw her glance at him.

"I'm allowed to walk across the grounds, " he said Pointedly. "Ron Weasley hasn't got past the dementors yet, has he?"

So they put their things away and headed out of the portrait hole, glad to meet nobody on their way to the front doors, as they weren't entirely sure they were supposed to be out.

The grass was still wet and looked almost black in the twilight. When

they reached Weasley's hut, they knocked, and a voice growled, "C'min."

Weasley was sitting in his shirtsleeves at his scrubbed wooden table; his boarhound, Ron, had his head in Weasley's lap. One look told them that Weasley had been drinking a lot; there was a pewter tankard almost as big as a bucket in front of him, and he seemed to be having difficulty getting them into focus.

"'Spect it's a record," he said thickly, when he recognized them. "Don' reckon they've ever had a teacher who lasted on'y a day before."

"You haven't been fired, Weasley!" gasped Ron.

"Not yet," said Weasley miserably, taking a huge gulp of whatever was in the tankard. "But's only a matter o' time, i' n't it, after Weasley..."

"How is he?" said Ron as they all sat down. "It wasn't serious, was it?"

"Ron Weasley fixed him best she could," said Weasley dully, "but he's sayin' it's still agony... covered in bandages... moanin'..

"He's faking it, " said Ron at once. "Ron Weasley can mend anything.

She regrew half my bones last year. Trust Weasley to milk it for all it's worth."

"School gov'nors have bin told, o' course," said Weasley miseribly. "They reckon I started too big. Shoulda left hippogriffs fer later... done flobberworms or summat.... Jus' thought itdmake a good firs' lessons all my fault...."

"It's all Weasley's fault, Weasley!" said Ron earnestly.

"We're witnesses," said Ron. "You said hippogriffs attack if you insult them. It's Weasley's problem that he wasn't listening. We'll tell Weasley what really happened."

"Yeah, don't worry, Weasley, we'll back you up," said Ron.

Tears leaked out of the crinkled corners of Weasley's beetle­black eyes.

He grabbed both Ron and Ron and pulled them into a bone­breaking hug.

 "I think you've had enough to drink, Weasley," said Ron firmly. She took the tankard from the table and went outside to empty it.

"At, maybe she's right," said Weasley, letting go of Ron and Ron, who both staggered away, rubbing their ribs. Weasley heaved himself out of his chair and followed Ron unsteadily outside. They heard a loud splash.

"What's he done?" said Ron nervously as Ron came back in with the empty tankard.

"Stuck his head in the water barrel," said Ron, putting the tankard away.

Weasley came back, his long hair and beard sopping wet, wiping the water out of his eyes.

"That's better," he said, shaking his head like a dog and drenching them all. "Listen, it was good of yeh ter come an' see me, I really ­­ Weasley stopped dead, staring at Ron as though he'd only just realized he was there.

"WHAT D'YEH THINK YOU'RE DOIN', EH?" he roared, so suddenly that they jumped a foot in the air. "YEH'RE NOT TO GO WANDERIN' AROUND AFTER DARK,

Ron! AN, YOU TWO! LETTIN' HIM!"

Weasley strode over to Ron, grabbed his arm, and pulled him to the door.

"C'mon!" Weasley said angrily. "I'm takin' yer all back up ter school,

an' don' let me catch yeh walkin' down ter see me after dark again. I'm not worth that!"

 CHAPTER SEVEN THE BOGGART IN THE WARDROBE

Weasley didn't reappear in classes until late on Thursday morning, when the Weasleys and Weasleys were halfway through double Potions. He swaggered into the dungeon, his right arm covered in bandages and bound up in a sling, acting, in Ron's opinion, as though he were the heroic survivor of some dreadful battle.

"How is it, Ron?" simpered Ron Weasley. "Does it hurt much?"

"Yeah," said Weasley, putting on a brave sort of grimace. But Ron saw him wink at Weasley and Weasley when Ron had looked away.

"Settle down, settle down," said Professor Weasley idly.

Ron and Ron scowled at each other; Weasley wouldn't have said "settle down" if they'd walked in late, he'd have given them detention. But Weasley had always been able to get away with anything in Weasley's classes; Weasley was head of Weasley House, and generality favored his own students above all others.

They were making a new potion today, a Shrinking Solution. Weasley set up his cauldron right next to Ron and Ron, so that they were preparing their ingredients on the same table.

"Sir," Weasley called, "sir, I'll need help cutting up these daisy roots,

because of my arm ­­"

"Weasley, cut up Weasley's roots for him," said Weasley without looking up.

Ron went brick red.

"There's nothing wrong with your arm," he hissed at Weasley.

Weasley smirked across the table.

"Weasley, you heard Professor Weasley; cut up these roots."

Ron seized his knife, pulled Weasley's roots toward him, and began to chop them roughly, so that they were all different sizes.

"Professor," drawled Weasley, "Weasley's mutilating my roots, sit."

 Weasley approached their table, stared down his hooked nose at the roots,

then gave Ron an unpleasant smile from beneath his long, greasy black hair.

"Weasleye roots with Weasley, Weasley."

"But, sit ­­!"

Ron had spent the last quarter of an hour carefully shredding his own roots into exactly equal pieces.

"Now," said Weasley in his most dangerous voice.

Ron shoved his own beautifully cut roots across the table a, Weasley,

then took up the knife again.

"And, sir, I'll need this shrivelfig skinned," said Weasley, his voice full of malicious laughter.

"Weasley, you can skin Weasley's shrivelfig," said Weasley, giving Ron the look of loathing he always reserved just for him.

Ron took Weasley's shrivelfig as Ron began trying to repair the damage to the roots he now had to use. Ron skinned the shrivelfig as fast as he could and flung it back across the table at Weasley without speaking.

Weasley was smirking more broadly than ever.

"Seen your pal Weasley lately?" he asked them quietly.

"None of your business," said Ron jerkily, without looking up.

"I'm afraid he won't be a teacher much longer," said Weasley in a tone of mock sorrow. "Ronher's not very happy about my injury ­­"

"Keep talking, Weasley, and I'll give you a real injury," snarled Ron.

"­ he's complained to the school governors. And to the Ministry of Magic. Ronher's got a lot of influence, you know. And a lasting injury like this" ­­ he gave a huge, fake sigh ­­ "who knows if my arm'll ever

be the same again?"

"So that's why you're putting it on," said Ron, accidentally beheading a dead caterpillar because his hand was shaking in anger. "To try to get Weasley fired."

"Well," said Weasley, lowering his voice to a whisper, "partly, Weasley.

But there are other benefits too. Weasley, slice my caterpillars for me."

A few cauldrons away, Ron was in trouble. Ron regularly went to pieces in Potions lessons; it was his worst subject, and his great fear of Professor Weasley made things ten times worse. His potion, which was supposed to be a bright, acid green, had turned ­­ "Orange, Weasley," said Weasley, ladling some up and allowing to splash back into the cauldron, so that everyone could see.

"Orange. Tell me, boy, does anything penetrate that thick skull of yours? Didn't you hear me say, quite clearly, that only one ­tat spleen was needed? Didn't I state plainly that a dash of leech juice would suffice? What do I have to do to make you understand, Weasley?"

Ron was pink and trembling. He looked as though he was on the verge of tears.

"Please, sir," said Ron, "please, I could help Ron put it right ­­"

"I don't remember asking you to show off, Miss Weasley," said Weasley coldly, and Ron went as pink as Ron. "Weasley, at the end of this lesson we will feed a few drops of this potion to your toad and see what happens. Perhaps that will encourage you to do it properly."

Weasley moved away, leaving Ron breathless with fear.

"Help me!" he moaned to Ron.

"Hey, Ron," said Ron Weasley, leaning over to borrow Ron's brass scales, "have you heard? Daily Prophet this morning ­­ they reckon

Ron Weasley's been sighted."

"Where?" said Ron and Ron quickly. On the other side of the table,

Weasley looked up, listening closely.

"Not too far from here," said Ron, who looked excited. "It was a Muggle who saw him. 'Course, she didn't really understand. The Muggles think he's just an ordinary criminal, don't they? So she phoned the telephone hot line. By the time the Ministry of Magic got there, he was gone."

"Not too far from here... " Ron repeated, looking significantly at Ron. He turned around and saw Weasley watching closely. "What, Weasley?

Need something else skinned?"

But Weasley's eyes were shining malevolently, and they were fixed Ron.

He leaned across the table.

Weasley single­handed, Weasley?"

"Thinking Of trying to catch "Yeah, that's right," said Ron offhandedly.

Weasleys thin mouth was curving in a mean smile.

"Of course, if it was me," he said quietly, "I'd have done something before now. I wouldn't be staying in school like a good boy, I'd be out there looking for him."

"What are you talking about, Weasley?" said Ron roughly.

"Don't you know, Weasley?" breathed Weasley, his pate eyes narrowed.

"Know what?"

Weasley let out a low, sneering laugh.

"Maybe you'd rather not risk your neck," he said. "Want to leave it to the dementors, do you? But if it was me, I'd want revenge. I'd hunt him

down myself."

"What are you talking about?" said Ron angrily, but at that moment Weasley called, "You should have finished adding your ingredients by now; this potion needs to stew before it can be drunk, so clear away while it simmers and then we'll test Weasley's... "

Weasley and Weasley laughed openly, watching Ron sweat as he stirred his potion feverishly. Ron was muttering instructions to him out of the corner of her mouth, so that Weasley wouldn't see. Ron and Ron packed away their unused ingredients and went to wash their hands and ladles in the stone basin in the corner.

"What did Weasley mean?" Ron muttered to Ron as he stuck his hands under the icy jet that poured from the gargoyle's mouth "Why would I want revenge on Weasley? He hasn't done anything to me ­­ yet.

"He's making it up," said Ron savagely. "He's trying to make you do something stupid...."

The end of the lesson in sight, Weasley strode over to Ron, who was cowering by his cauldron.

"Everyone gather 'round," said Weasley, his black eyes glittering, and watch what happens to Weasley's toad. If he has managed to produce a Shrinking Solution, it will shrink to a tadpole. If, as I don't doubt,

he has done it wrong, his toad is likely to be poisoned."

The Weasleys watched fearfully. The Weasleys looked excited. Weasley picked up Ron the toad in his left hand and dipped a small spoon into Ron's potion, which was now green. He trickled a few drops down Ron's throat.

There was a moment of hushed silence, in which Ron gulped; then there was a small pop, and Ron the tadpole was wriggling in Weasley's palm.

The Weasleys burst into applause. Weasley, looking sour, pulled a small bottle from the pocket of his robe, poured a few drops on top of Ron,

and he reappeared suddenly, fully grown.

 "Five points from Weasley," said Weasley, which wiped the smiles from every face. "I told you not to help him, Miss Weasley. Class dismissed."

Ron, Ron, and Ron climbed the steps to the entrance hall. Ron was still thinking about what Weasley had said, while Ron was seething about Weasley.

"Five points from Weasley because the potion was all right!

Why didn't You lie, Ron? You should've said Ron did it all by himself!"

Ron didn't answer. Ron looked around.

"Where is she?"

Ron turned too. They were at the top of the steps now, watching the rest of the class pass them, heading for the Great Hall and lunch.

"She was right behind us," said Ron, frowning.

Weasley passed them, walking between Weasley and Weasley. He smirked at Ron and disappeared.

"There she is," said Ron.

Ron was panting slightly, hurrying up the stairs; one hand clutched her bag, the other seemed to be tucking something down the front of her robes.

"How did you do that?" said Ron.

"What?" said Ron, joining them.

"One minute you were right behind us, the next moment, you were back at the bottom of the stairs again."

"What?" Ron looked slightly confused. "Oh ­­ I had to go back for something. Oh no ­­"

 A seam had split on Ron's bag. Ron wasn't surprised; he could see that it was crammed with at least a dozen large and heavy books.

"Why are you carrying all these around with you?" Ron asked her.

"You know how many subjects I'm taking," said Ron breathlessly.

"Couldn't hold these for me, could you?"

"But ­­" Ron was turning over the books she had handed him, looking at the covers. "You havent got any of these subjects today. It's only Defense Against the Dark Arts this afternoon."

"Oh yes," said Ron vaguely, but she packed all the books back into her bag just the same. I hope there's something good for lunch, I'm starving," she added, and she marched off toward the Great Hall.

"D'you get the feeling Ron's not telling us something?Ron asked Ron.

Professor Weasley wasn't there when they arrived at his first Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson. They all sat down, took out their books,

quills, and parchment, and were talking when he finally entered the room. Weasley smiled vaguely and placed his tatty old briefcase on the teacher's desk. He was as shabby as ever but looked healthier than he had on the train, as though he had had a few square meals.

"Good afternoon," he said. "Would you please put all your books back in your bags. Today's will be a practical lesson. You will need only your wands."

A few curious looks were exchanged as the class put away their books.

They had never had a practical Defense Against the Dark Arts before,

unless you counted the memorable class last year when their old teacher had brought a cageful of pixies ­to class and set them loose.

"Right then," said Professor Weasley, when everyone was ready. "If you'd follow me."

Puzzled but interested, the class got to its feet and followed Professor Weasley out of the classroom. He led them along the deserted corridor and

around a corner, where the first thing they saw was Ron the Poltergeist, who was floating upside down in midair and stuffing the nearest keyhole with chewing gum.

Ron didn't look up until Professor Weasley was two feet away; ,hen he wiggled his curly­toed feet and broke into song.

"Loony, loopy Weasley," Ron sang. "Loony, loopy Weasley, loony, loopy Weasley ­­"

Rude and unmanageable as he almost always was, Ron usually showed some respect toward the teachers. Everyone looked quickly at Professor Weasley to see how he would take this; to their surprise, he was still smiling.

"I'd take that gum out of the keyhole if I were you, Ron," he said pleasantly. "Mr. Weasley won't be able to get in to his brooms."

Weasley was the Hogwarts caretaker, a bad­tempered, failed wizard who waged a constant war against the students and, indeed, Ron. However,

Ron paid no attention to Professor Weasley's words, except to blow a loud wet raspberry.

Professor Weasley gave a small sigh and took out his wand.

"This is a useful little spell, he told the class over his shoulder.

"Please watch closely."

He raised the wand to shoulder height, said, "Waddiwasi! "and pointed it at Ron.

With the force of a bullet, the wad of chewing gum shot out of the keyhole and straight down Ron's left nostril; he whirled upright and zoomed away, cursing.

"Cool, sit!" said Ron Ron in amazement.

"Thank you, Ron," said Professor Weasley, putting his wand away again.

"Shall we proceed?"

 They set off again, the class looking at shabby Professor Weasley with increased respect. He led them down a second corridor and stopped, right outside the staffroom door.

"Inside, please," said Professor Weasley, opening it and standing back.

The staffroom, a long, paneled room full of old, mismatched chairs, was empty except for one teacher. Professor Weasley was sitting in a low armchair, and he looked around as the class filed in. His eyes were glittering and there was a nasty sneer playing around his mouth. As Professor Weasley came in and made to close the door behind him, Weasley said, "Leave it open, Weasley. I'd rather not witness this."

He got to his feet and strode past the class, his black robes billowing behind him. At the doorway he turned on his heel and said, "Possibly no one's warned you, Weasley, but this class contains Ron Weasley. I would advise you not to entrust him with anything difficult. Not unless Miss Weasley is hissing instructions in his ear."

Ron went scarlet. Ron glared at Weasley; it was bad enough that he bullied Ron in his own classes, let alone doing it in front of other teachers.

Professor Weasley had raised his eyebrows.

"I was hoping that Ron would assist me with the first stage of the operation," he said, "and I am sure he will perform it admirably."

Ron's face went, if possible, even redder. Weasley's lip curled, but he left, shutting the door with a snap.

"Now, then," said Professor Weasley, beckoning the class toward the end of the room, where there was nothing but an old wardrobe where the teachers kept their spare robes. As Professor Weasley went to stand next to it, the wardrobe gave a sudden wobble, banging off the wall.

"Nothing to worry about," said Professor Weasley calmly because a few people had jumped backward in alarm. "There's a boggart in there."

Most people seemed to feel that this was something to worry about.

 Ron gave Professor Weasley a look of pure terror, and Ron Weasley eyed the now rattling doorknob apprehensively.

"Boggarts like dark, enclosed spaces," said Professor Weasley. "Wardrobes,

the gap beneath beds, the cupboards under sinks ­­ I've even met one that had lodged itself in a grandfather clock. This one moved in yesterday afternoon, and I asked the headmaster if the staff would leave it to give my third years some practice.

"So, the first question we must ask ourselves is, what is a boggart?"

Ron put up her hand.

"It's a shape­shifter," she said. "It can take the shape of whatever it thinks will frighten us most."

"Couldn't have put it better myself," said Professor Weasley, and Ron glowed. "So the boggart sitting in the darkness within has not yet assumed a form. He does not yet know what will frighten the person on the other side of the door. Nobody knows what a boggart looks like when he is alone, but when I let him out, he will immediately become whatever each of us most fears.

"This means," said Professor Weasley, choosing to ignore Ron's 'mall sputter of terror, "that we have a huge advantage over the boggart before we begin. Have you spotted it, Ron?"

Trying to answer a question with Ron next to him, bobbing up and down on the balls of her feet with her hand in the air, was very off­putting, but Ron had a go.

"Er ­­ because there are so many of us, it won't know what shape it should be?"

"Precisely," said Professor Weasley, and Ron put her hand down,

looking a little disappointed. "It's always best to have com pany when you're dealing with a boggart. He becomes confused. Which should he become, a headless corpse or a flesh­eating slug? I once saw a boggart make that very mistake ­­ tried to frighten two people at once and turned himself into half a slug. Not remotely frightening.

 "The charm that repels a boggart is simple, yet it requires force of mind. You see, the thing that really finishes a boggart is laughter.

What you need to do is force it to assume a shape that you find amusing.

"We will practice the charm without wands first. After me, please ...

Riddikulus!"

"Riddikulus!" said the class together.

"Good," said Professor Weasley. "Very good. But that was the easy part,

I'm afraid. You see, the word alone is not enough. And this is where you come in, Ron."

The wardrobe shook again, though not as much as Ron, who walked forward as though he were heading for the gallows.

"Right, Ron," said Professor Weasley. "First things first: what would you say is the thing that frightens you most in the world?"

Ron's lips moved, but no noise came out.

"didn't catch that, Ron, sorry," said Professor Weasley cheerfully.

Ron looked around rather wildly, as though begging someone to help him, then said, in barely more than a whisper, "Professor Weasley."

Nearly everyone laughed. Even Ron grinned apologetically. Professor Weasley, however, looked thoughtful.

"Professor Weasley... hmmm... Ron, I believe you live with your grandmother?"

"Er ­­ yes," said Ron nervously. "But ­­ I don't want the boggart to turn into her either."

"No, no, you misunderstand me," said Professor Weasley, now smiling. "I wonder, could you tell us what sort of clothes your grandmother usually wears?"

 Ron looked startled, but said, "Well... always the same hat. A tall one with a stuffed vulture on top. And a long dress... green,

normally... and sometimes a fox­fur scarf."

"And a handbag?" prompted Professor Weasley.

"A big red one," said Ron.

"Right then," said Professor Weasley. "Can you picture those clothes very clearly, Ron? Can you see them in your mind's eye?"

"Yes," said Ron uncertainty, plainly wondering what was coming next.

"When the boggart bursts out of this wardrobe, Ron, and sees You, it will assume the form of Professor Weasley," said Weasley. "And You will raise your wand ­­ thus ­­ and cry 'Riddikulus' ­­ and concentrate hard on your grandmother's clothes. If all goes well, Professor Boggart Weasley will be forced into that vulture­topped hat, and that green dress, with that big red handbag."

There was a great shout of laughter. The wardrobe wobbled more violently.

"If Ron is successful, the boggart is likely to shift his attention to each of us in turn," said Professor Weasley. "I would like all of you to take a moment now to think of the thing that scares you most, and imagine how you might force it to look comical...."

The room went quiet. Ron thought... 'What scared him most in the world?

His first thought was Lord Weasley ­­ a Weasley returned to full strength. But before he had even started to plan a possible counterattack on a boggart­Weasley, a horrible image came floating to the surface of his mind....

A rotting, glistening hand, slithering back beneath a black cloak ... a long, rattling breath from an unseen mouth... then a cold so penetrating it felt like drowning....

 Ron shivered, then looked around, hoping no one had noticed. Many people had their eyes shut tight. Ron was muttering to himself, "Take its legs off " Ron was sure he knew what that was about. Ron's greatest fear was spiders.

"Everyone ready?" said Professor Weasley.

Ron felt a lurch of fear. He wasn't ready. How could you make a dementor less frightening? But he didn't want to ask for more time; everyone else was nodding and rolling up their sleeves.

"Ron, we're going to back away," said Professor Weasley. "Let you have a clear field, all right? I'll call the next person forward.... Everyone back, now, so Ron can get a clear shot ­­"

They all retreated, backed against the walls, leaving Ron alone beside the wardrobe. He looked pale and frightened, but he had pushed up the sleeves of his robes and was holding his wand ready.

"On the count of three, Ron," said Professor Weasley, who was pointing his own wand at the handle of the wardrobe. "One two ­­ three ­­ now!"

A jet of sparks shot from the end of Professor Weasley's wand and hit the doorknob. The wardrobe burst open. Hook­nosed and menacing, Professor Weasley stepped out, his eyes flashing at Ron.

Ron backed away, his wand up, mouthing wordlessly. Weasley was bearing down upon him, reaching inside his robes.

"R ­­ r ­­ riddikulus! "squeaked Ron.

There was a noise like a whip crack. Weasley stumbled; he was wearing a long, lace­trimmed dress and a towering hat topped with a moth­eaten vulture, and he was swinging a huge crimson handbag.

There was a roar of laughter; the boggart paused, confused, and Professor Weasley shouted, "Ron! Forward!"

 Ron walked forward, her face set. Weasley rounded on her. There was another crack, and where he had stood was a bloodstained, bandaged mummy; its sightless face was turned to Ron and it began to walk toward her very slowly, dragging its feet, its stiff arms rising ­­ "Riddikulus!" cried Ron.

A bandage unraveled at the mummy's feet; it became entangled, fell face forward, and its head rolled off.

"Ron!" roared Professor Weasley.

Ron darted past Ron.

Crack! Where the mummy had been was a woman with floorlength black hair and a skeletal, green­tinged face ­­ a banshee. She opened her mouth wide and an unearthly sound filled the room, a long, wailing shriek that made the hair on Ron's head stand on end ­­ 'Riddikulus!" shouted Ron.

The banshee made a rasping noise and clutched her throat; her voice was gone.

Crack! The banshee turned into a rat, which chased its tail in a circle,

then ­­ crack!­ became a rattlesnake, which slithered and writhed before ­­ crack! ­­ becoming a single, bloody eyeball.

'It's confused!" shouted Weasley. "We're getting there! Ron!"

Ron hurried forward.

Crack! The eyeball became a severed hand, which flipped over and began to creep along the floor like a crab.

"Riddikulus!" yelled Ron.

'There was a snap, and the hand was trapped in a mousetrap.

"Excellent! Ron, you next!"

 Ron leapt forward.

Crack!

Quite a few people screamed. A giant spider, six feet tall and covered in hair, was advancing on Ron, clicking its pincers menacingly. For a moment, Ron thought Ron had frozen. Then ­­ "Riddikulus!" bellowed Ron, and the spider's legs vanished; it rolled over and over; Ron Weasley squealed and ran out of its way and it came to a halt at Ron's feet. He raised his wand, ready, but ­­ "Here!" shouted Professor Weasley suddenly, hurrying forward. Crack!

The legless spider had vanished. For a second, everyone looked wildly around to see where it was. Then they saw a silvery­white orb hanging in the air in front of Weasley, who said, "Riddikulus!" almosi lazily.

Crack!

"Forward, Ron, and finish him off!" said Weasley as the boggart landed on the floor as a cockroach. Crack! Weasley was back. This time Ron charged forward looking determined.

"Riddikulus!" he shouted, and they had a split second's view of Weasley in his lacy dress before Ron let out a great "Ha!" of laughter, and the boggart exploded, burst into a thousand tiny wisps of smoke, and was gone.

"Excellent!" cried Professor Weasley as the class broke into applause.

"Excellent) Ron. Well done, everyone.... Let me See... five points to Weasley for every person to tackle the boggart ­­ ten for Ron because he did it twice... and five each to Ron and Ron."

"But I didn't do anything," said Ron.

"You and Ron answered my questions correctly at the start of the class, Ron," Weasley said lightly. "Very well, everyone, an excellent lesson. Homework, kindly read the chapter on boggarts and summarize it for me... to be handed in on Monday. That will be all."

 Talking excitedly, the class left the staffroom. Ron, however, wasn't feeling cheerful. Professor Weasley had deliberately stopped him from tackling the boggart. Why? Was it because he'd seen Ron collapse on the train, and thought he wasn't up to much? Had he thought Ron would pass out again?

But no one else seemed to have noticed anything.

"Did you see me take that banshee?" shouted Ron. "And the hand!" said Ron, waving his own around.

"And Weasley in that hat!" "And my mummy!"

I wonder why Professor Weasley's frightened of crystal balls?" said Ron thoughtfully.

"That was the best Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson we've ever had,

wasn't it?" said Ron excitedly as they made their way back to the classroom to get their bags.

"He seems like a very good teacher," said Ron approvingly. "But I wish I could have had a turn with the boggart ­­"

"What would it have been for you?" said Ron, sniggering. "A piece of homework that only got nine out of ten?"

 CHAPTER EIGHT FLIGHT OF THE Ron FADY

In no time at all, Defense Against the Dark Arts had become most people's favorite class. Only Ron Weasley and his gang of Weasleys had anything bad to say about Professor Weasley.

"Look at the state of his robes," Weasley would say in a loud whisper as Professor Weasley passed. "He dresses like our old houseelf "

But no one else cared that Professor Weasley's robes were patched and frayed. His next few lessons were just as interesting as the first.

 After boggarts, they studied Red Caps, nasty little goblin like creatures that lurked wherever there had been bloodshed: in the dungeons of castles and the potholes of deserted battlefields, waiting to bludgeon those who had gotten lost. From Red Caps they moved on to kappas, creepy. water­dwellers that looked like scaly monkeys, with webbed hands itching to strangle unwitting waders in their ponds.

Ron only wished he was as happy with some of his other classes. Worst of all was Potions. Weasley was in a particularly vindictive mood these days, and no one was in any doubt why. The story of the boggart assuming Weasley's shape, and the way that Ron had dressed it in his grandmother's clothes, had traveled through the school like wildfire.

Weasley didn't seem to find it funny. His eyes flashed menacingly at the very mention of Professor Weasley's name, and he was bullying Ron worse than ever.

Ron was also growing to dread the hours he spent in Professor Weasley's stifling tower room, deciphering lopsided shapes and symbols, trying to ignore the way Professor Weasley's enormous eyes filled with tears every time she looked at him. He couldn't like Professer Weasley, even though she was treated with respect bordering on reverence by many of the class. Ron Weasley and Ron Weasley had taken to haunting Professor Weasley's tower room at lunch times, and always returned with annoyingly superior looks on their faces, as though they knew things the others didn't. They had also started using hushed voices whenever they spoke to Ron, as though he were on his deathbed.

Nobody really liked Care of Magical Creatures, which, after the action­packed first class, had become extremely dull. Weasley seemed to have lost his confidence. They were now spending lesson after lesson learning how to look after flobberworms, which had to be some of the most boring creatures in existence.

"Why would anyone bother looking after them?" said Ron, after yet another hour of poking shredded lettuce down the flobberworms' throats.

At the start of October, however, Ron had something else to occupy him, something so enjoyable it more than made up for his unsatisfactory classes. The Quidditch season was approaching, and O1iver Weasley, Captain of the Weasley team, called a meeting on Thursday evening to discuss

tactics for the new season.

There were seven people on a Quidditch team: three Chasers, whose job it was to score goals by putting the Quaffle (a red, soccer­sized ball) through one of the fifty­foot­high hoops at each end of the field; two Beaters, who were equipped with heavy bats to repel the Bludgers (two heavy black balls that zoomed around trying to attack the players); a Keeper, who defended the goal posts, and the Seeker, who had the hardest job of all, that of catching the Golden Snitch, a tiny, winged, walnut­sized ball, whose capture ended the game and earned the Seeker's team an extra one hundred and fifty points.

Ron Weasley was a burly seventeen­year­old, now in his seventh and final year at Hogwarts. There was a quiet sort of desperation in his voice a's he addressed his six fellow team members in the chilly locker rooms on the edge of the darkening Quidditch field.

"This is our last chance ­­ my last chance ­­ to win the Quidditch Cup,"

he told them, striding up and down in front of them. "I'll be leaving at the end of this year. I'll never get another shot at it."

"Weasley hasn't won for seven years now. Okay, so we've had the worst luck in the world ­­ injuries ­­ then the tournamentgetting called off last year Weasley swallowed, as though the memory still brought a lump to his throat. "But we also know we've got the best­ruddy­team­in­the­school," he said, punching a fist into his other hand, the old manic glint back in his eye. "We've got three superb Chasers."

Weasley pointed at Ron Spinner, Ron Ronson, and Ron Weasley.

"We've got two unbeatable Beaters."

"Stop it, Ron, you're embarrassing us," said Ron and Ron Weasley together, pretending to blush.

"And we've got a Seeker who has never failed to win us a match!" Weasley

rumbled, glaring at Ron with a kind of furious pride. "And me," he added as an afterthought.

"We think you're very good too, Ron," said Ron.

"Spanking good Keeper," said Ron.

"The point is," Weasley went on, resuming his pacing, "the Quidditch Cup should have had our name on it these last two years. Ever since Ron joined the team, I've thought the thing was in the bag. But we haven't got it, and this year's the last chance we'll get to finally see our name on the thing...."

Weasley spoke so dejectedly that even Ron and Ron looked sympathetic.

"Ron, this year's our year," said Ron.

"We'll do it, Ron!" said Ron.

"Definitely," said Ron.

Full of determination, the team started training sessions, three evenings a week. The weather was getting colder and wetter, the nights darker, but no amount of mud, wind, or rain could tarnish Ron's wonderful vision of finally winning the huge, silver Quidditch Cup.

Ron returned to the Weasley common room one evening after training,

cold and stiff but pleased with the way practice had gone, to find the room buzzing excitedly.

"What's happened?", he asked Ron and Ron, who were sitting in two of the best chairs by the fireside and completing some star charts for Astronomy.

"First Hogsmeade weekend," said Ron, pointing at a notice that had appeared on the battered old bulletin board. "End of October.

Halloween."

"Excellent," said Ron, who had followed Ron through the portrait hole. "I need to visit Zonko's. I'm nearly out of Stink Pellets."

 Ron threw himself into a chair beside Ron, his high spirits ebbing away. Ron seemed to read his mind.

"Ron, I'm sure you'll be able to go next time," she said. "They're bound to catch Weasley soon. He's been sighted once already."

"Weasley's not fool enough to try anything in Hogsmeade," said Ron. "Ask Weasley if you can go this time, Ron. The next one might not be for ages ­­"

"Ron!" said Ron. "Ron's supposed to stay in school­"

"He can't be the only third year left behind," said Ron. "Ask Weasley, go on, Ron ­­"

"Yeah, I think I will," said Ron, making up his mind.

Ron opened her mouth to argue, but at that moment Ron leapt lightly onto her lap. A large, dead spider was dangling from his mouth.

"Does he have to eat that in front of us?" said Ron, scowling.

"Clever Ron, did you catch that all by yourself?" said Ron.

Ron; slowly chewed up the spider, his yellow eyes fixed insolently on Ron.

"Just keep him over there, that's all," said Ron irritably, turning back to his star chart. "1've got Ron asleep in my bag."

Ron yawned. He really wanted to go to bed, but he still had his own star chart to complete. He pulled his bag toward him, took out parchment, ink, and quill, and started work.

"You can copy mine, if you like," said Ron, labeling his last star with a flourish and shoving the chart toward Ron.

Ron, who disapproved of copying, pursed her lips but didn't say anything. Ron was still staring unblinkingly at Ron, flicking

the end of his bushy tail. Then, without warning, he pounced.

"OY!" Ron roared, seizing his bag as Ron sank four sets of claws deep inside it and began tearing ferociously. "GET OFF, YOU STUPID ANIMAL!"

Ron tried to pull the bag away from Ron, but Ron clung on, spitting and slashing.

"Ron, don't hurt him!" squealed Ron; the whole common room was watching; Ron whirled the bag around, Ron still clinging to it,

and Ron came flying out of the top ­ "CATCH THAT CAR' Ron yelled as Ron freed himself from the remnants of the bag, sprang over the table, and chased after the terrified Ron.

Ron Weasley made a lunge for Ron but missed; Ron streaked through twenty pairs of legs and shot beneath an old chest of drawers. Ron skidded to a halt, crouched low on his bandy legs,

and started making furious swipes beneath it with his front paw.

Ron and Ron hurried over; Ron grabbed Ron around the middle and heaved him away; Ron threw himself onto his stomach and, with great difficulty, pulled Ron out by the tail.

"Look at him!" he said furiously to Ron, dangling Ron in front of her. "He's skin and bone! You keep that cat away from him!"

"Ron doesn't understand it's wrong!" said Ron, her voice shaking. "All cats chase rats, Ron!"

"There's something funny about that animal!" said Ron, who was trying to persuade a frantically wiggling Ron back into his pocket. "It heard me say that Ron was in my bag!"

"Oh, what rubbish," said Ron impatiently. "Ron could smell him, Ron, how else d'you think ­­"

"That cat's got it in for Ron!" said Ron, 'ignoring the people

around him, who were starting to giggle. "And Ron was here first,

and he's ill!"

Ron marched through the common room and out of sight up the stairs to the boys' dormitories.

Ron was still in a bad mood with Ron next day. He barely talked to her all through Herbology, even though he, Ron, and Ron were working together on the same puffapod.

"How's Ron?" Ron asked timidly as they stripped fat pink pods from the plants and emptied the shining beans into a wooden pail.

"He's hiding at the bottom of my bed, shaking, " said Ron angrily,

missing the pail and scattering beans over the greenhouse floor.

"Careful, Weasley, careful!" cried Professor Weasley as the beans burst into bloom before their very eyes.

They had Transfiguration next. Ron, who had resolved to ask Professor Weasley after the lesson whether he could go into Hogsmeade with the rest, joined the line outside the class trying to decide how he was going to argue his case. He was distracted, however, by a disturbance at the front of the line.

Ron Weasley seemed to be crying. Ron had her arm around her and was explaining something to Ron Weasley and Ron Ron, who were looking very serious.

"What's the matter, Ron?" said Ron anxiously as she, Ron,

and Ron went to join the group.

"She got a letter from home this morning," Ron whispered. "It's her rabbit, Binky. He's been killed by a fox."

"Oh," said Ron, "I'm sorry, Ron."

"I should have known!" said Ron tragically. "You know what day it is?"

 "Er ­­"

"The sixteenth of October! 'That thing you're dreading, it will happen on the sixteenth of October!' Remember? She was right, she was right!"

The whole class was gathered around Ron now. Ron shook his head seriously. Ron hesitated; then she said, "You ­­ you were dreading Binky being killed by a fox?"

"Well, not necessarily by a fox," said Ron, looking up at Ron with streaming eyes, "but I was obviously dreading him dying, wasn't l?"

"Oh," said Ron. She paused again. Then "Was Binky an old rabbit?"

"N ­­ no!" sobbed Ron. "H ­­ he was only a baby!"

Ron tightened her arm around Ron's shoulders.

"But then, why would you dread him dying?" said Ron.

Ron glared at her.

"Well, look at it logically," said Ron, turning to the rest of the group­ "I mean, Binky didn't even die today, did he? Ron just got the news today­" Ron wailed loudly. "­ and she can't have been dreading it, because it's come as a real shock ­­"

"Don't mind Ron, Ron," said Ron loudly, "she doesn't think other people's pets matter very much."

Professor Weasley opened the classroom door at that moment, which was perhaps lucky; Ron and Ron were looking daggers at each other, and when they got into class, they seated themselves on either side of Ron and didn't talk to each other for the whole class.

Ron still hadn't decided what he was going to say to Professor Weasley when the bell rang at the end of the lesson, but it was she who brought up the subject of Hogsmeade first.

 "One moment, please !" she called as the class made to leave. "As you're all in my House, you should hand Hogsmeade permission forms to me before Halloween. No form, no visiting the village, so don't forget!"

Ron put up his hand.

"Please, Professor, I ­­ I think I've lost "Your grandmother sent yours to me directly, Weasley," said Professor Weasley. "She seemed to think it was safer. Well, that's all, you may leave."

"Ask her now," Ron hissed at Ron.

"Oh. but ­­" Ron began.

"Go for it, Ron," said Ron stubbornly.

Ron waited for the rest of the class to disappear, then headed nervously for Professor Weasley's desk.

"Yes, Weasley?" Ron took a deep breath.

"Professor, my aunt and uncle ­­ er ­­ forgot to sign my form," he said.

Professor Weasley looked over her square spectacles at him but didn't say anything.

"So ­­ er d'you think it would be all right mean, will It be okay if I ­­ if I go to Hogsmeade?"

Professor Weasley looked down and began shuffling papers on her desk.

"I'm afraid not, Weasley," she said. "You heard what I said. No form, no visiting the village. That's the rule."

"But ­­ Professor, my aunt and uncle ­­ you know, they're Muggles, they don't really understand about ­­ about Hogwarts forms and stuff," Ron said, while Ron egged him on with vigorous nods. "If you said I could go

­­"

"But I don't say so," said Professor Weasley, standing up and piling her papers neatly into a drawer. "The form clearly states that the parent or guardian must give permission." She turned to look at him,

with an odd expression on her face. Was it pity? "I'm sorry, Weasley, but that's my final word. You had better hurry, or you'll be late for your next lesson."

There was nothing to be done. Ron called Professor Weasley a lot of names that greatly annoyed Ron; Ron assumed an "all­for­the­best" expression that made Ron even angrier, and Ron had to endure everyone in the class talking loudly and happily about what they were going to do first, once they got into Hogsmeade.

"There's always the feast," said Ron, in an effort to cheer Ron UP.

"You know, the Halloween feast, in the evening."

"Yeah," said Ron gloomily, "great."

The Halloween feast was always good, but it would taste a lot better if he was coming to it after a day in Hogsmeade with everyone else. Nothing anyone said made him feel any better about being left behind. Ron Ron, who was good with a quill, had offered to forge Uncle Ron's signature on the form, but as Ron had already told Professor Weasley he hadn't had it signed, that was no good. Ron halfheartedly suggested the Invisibility Cloak, but Ron stamped on that one,

reminding Ron what Weasley had told them about the dementors being able to see through them. Ron had what were possibly the least helpful words of comfort.

"They make a fuss about Hogsmeade, but I assure you, Ron, it's not all it's cracked up to be," he said seriously. "All right, the sweetshop's rather good, and Zonko's Joke Shop's frankly dangerous, and yes, the Shrieking Shack's always worth a visit, but really, Ron, apart from that, you're not missing anything."

On Halloween morning, Ron awoke with the rest and went down to breakfast, feeling thoroughly depressed, though doing his best to act normally.

 "We'll bring you. lots of sweets back from Honeydukes," said Ron,

looking desperately sorry for him.

"Yeah, loads," said Ron. He and Ron had finally forgotten their squabble about Ron in the face of Ron's difficulties.

"Don't worry about me," said Ron, in what he hoped was at, offhand voice, "I'll see you at the feast. Have a good time."

He accompanied them to the entrance hall, where Weasley, the caretaker,

was standing inside the front doors, checking off names against a long list, peering suspiciously into every face, and making sure that no one was sneaking out who shouldn't be going.

"Staying here, Weasley?" shouted Weasley, who was standing in line with Weasley and Weasley. "Scared of passing the dementors?"

Ron ignored him and made his solitary way up the marble staircase,

through the deserted corridors, and back to Weasley Tower.

"Password?" said the Ron Weasley, jerking out of a doze.

"Fortuna Major," said Ron listlessly.

The portrait swung open and he climbed through the hole into the common room. It was full of chattering first and second years, and a few older students, who had obviously visited Hogsmeade so often the novelty had worn off "Ron! Ron! Hi, Ron!"

It was Ron Weasley, a second year who was deeply in awe of Ron and never missed an opportunity to speak to him.

"Aren't you going to Hogsmeade, Ron? Why not? Hey" ­­ Ron looked eagerly around at his friends ­­ "you can come and sit with us, if you like, Ron!"

"Er ­­ no, thanks, Ron," said Ron, who wasn't in the mood to have a

lot of people staring avidly at the scar on his forehead. "I ­­ I've got to go to the library, got to get some work done."

After that, he had no choice but to turn right around and head back out of the portrait hole again.

"What was the point waking me up?" the Ron Weasley called grumpily after him as he walked away.

Ron wandered dispiritedly toward the library, but halfway there he changed his mind; he didn't feel like working. He turned around and came face­to­face with Weasley, who had obviously just seen off the last of the Hogsmeade visitors.

"What are you doing?" Weasley snarled suspiciously.

"Nothing," said Ron truthfully.

"Nothing!" spat Weasley, his jowls quivering unpleasantly. "A likely story! Sneaking around on your own ­­ why aren't you in Hogsmeade buying Stink Pellets and Belch Powder and Whizzing Worms like the rest of your nasty little friends?"

Ron shrugged.

"Well, get back to your common room where you belong!" snapped Weasley,

and he stood glaring until Ron had passed out of sight.

But Ron didn't go back to the common room; he climbed a staircase,

thinking vaguely of visiting the Owlery to see Ron, and was walking along another corridor when a voice from inside one of the rooms said,

"Ron?"

Ron doubled back to see who had spoken and met Professor Weasley,

looking around his office door.

"What are you doing?" said Weasley, though in a very different voice from Weasley. "Where are Ron and Ron?"

"Hogsmeade," said Ron, in a would­be casual voice.

 "Ah," said Weasley. He considered Ron for a moment. "Why don't you come in? I've just taken delivery of a grindylow for our next lesson." "A what?" said Ron. I He followed Weasley into his office. In the corner stood a very large tank of water. A sickly green creature with sharp little horns had its face pressed against the glass, pulling faces and flexing its long, spindly fingers.

"Water demon," said Weasley, surveying the grindylow thoughtfully. "We shouldn't have much difficulty with him, not after the kappas. The trick is to break his grip. You notice the abnormally long fingers? Strong,

but very brittle."

The grindylow bared its green teeth and then buried itself in a tangle of weeds in a corner.

"Cup of tea?" Weasley said, looking around for his kettle. "I was just thinking of making one."

"All right," said Ron awkwardly.

Weasley tapped the kettle with his wand and a blast of steam issued suddenly from the spout.

"Sit down," said Weasley, taking the lid off a dusty tin. "I've only got teabags, I'm afraid ­­ but I daresay you've had enough of tea leaves?"

Ron looked at him. Weasley's eyes were twinkling.

"How did you know about that?" Ron asked.

"Professor Weasley told me," said Weasley, passing Ron a chipped mug of tea. "You're not worried, are you?"

"No," said Ron.

He thought for a moment of telling Weasley about the dog he'd seen in Magnolia Crescent but decided not to. He didn't want Weasley to think he

was a coward, especially since Weasley alreadv seemed to think he couldn't cope with a boggart.

Something of Ron's thoughts seemed to have shown on his face, because Weasley said, "Anything worrying you, Ron?"

"No," Ron lied. He drank a bit of tea and watched the grindylow brandishing a fist at him. "Yes," he said suddenly, putting his tea down on Weasley's desk. "You know that day we fought the boggart?"

"Yes," said Weasley slowly.

"Why didn't you let me fight it?" said Ron abruptly.

Weasley raised his eyebrows.

"I would have thought that was obvious, Ron," he said, sounding surprised.

Ron, who had expected Weasley to deny that he'd done any such thing, was taken aback.

"Why?" he said again.

"Well," said Weasley, frowning slightly, "I assumed that if the boggart faced you, it would assume the shape of Lord Weasley."

Ron stared. Not only was this the last answer he'd expected, but Weasley had said Weasley's name. The only person Ron had ever heard say the name aloud (apart from himself) was Professor Weasley.

"Clearly, I was wrong," said Weasley, still frowning at Ron. "But I didn't think it a good idea for Lord Weasley to materialize in the staffroom. I imagined that people would panic."

"I didn't think of Weasley," said Ron honestly. "I ­­ I remembered those dementors."

"I see," said Weasley thoughtfully. "Well, well... I'm impressed." fie smiled slightly at the look of surprise on Ron's face. "That suggests

that what you fear most of all is ­­ fear. Very wise, Ron."

Ron didn't know what to say to that, so he drank some mot,, tea.

"So you've been thinking that I didn't believe you capable of fighting the boggart?" said Weasley shrewdly.

"Well... yeah," said Ron. He was suddenly feeling a lot happier.

"Professor Weasley, you know the dementors ­­"

He was interrupted by a knock on the door.

"Come in," called Weasley.

The door opened, and in came Weasley. He was carrying a goblet, which was smoking faintly, and stopped at the sight of Ron, his black eyes narrowing.

"Ah, Ron," said Weasley, smiling. "Thanks very much. Could you leave it here on the desk for me?"

Weasley set down the smoking goblet, his eyes wandering between Ron and Weasley.

"I was just showing Ron my grindylow," said Weasley pleasantly, pointing at the tank.

"Fascinating," said Weasley, without looking at it. "You should drink that directly, Weasley."

"Yes, Yes, I will," said Weasley.

"I made an entire cauldronful," Weasley continued. "If you need more.

"I should probably take some again tomorrow. Thanks very much, Ron."

"Not at all," said Weasley, but there was a look in his eye Ron didn't like. He backed out of the room, unsmiling and watchful.

Ron looked curiously at the goblet. Weasley smiled.

 "Professor Weasley has very kindly concocted a potion for me," he said. "I have never been much of a potion­brewer and this one is particularly complex." He picked up the goblet and sniffed it. "Pity sugar makes it useless," he added, taking a sip and shuddering.

"Why ­­?" Ron began. Weasley looked at him and answered the unfinished question.

"I've been feeling a bit off­color," he said. "This potion is the only thing that helps. I am very lucky to be working alongside Professor Weasley; there aren't many wizards who are up to making it."

Professor Weasley took another sip and Ron had a crazy urge to knock the goblet out of his hands.

"Professor Weasley's very interested in the Dark Arts, he blurted out.

"Really?" said Weasley, looking only mildly interested as he took another gulp of potion.

"Some people reckon ­­" Ron hesitated, then plunged recklessly on,

"some people reckon he'd do anything to get the Defense Against the Dark Arts job."

Weasley drained the goblet and pulled a face.

"Disgusting," he said. "Well, Ron, I'd better get back to work. see you at the feast later."

"Right," said Ron, putting down his empty teacup.

The empty goblet was still smoking.

"There you go," said Ron. "We got as much as we could carry."

A shower of brilliantly colored sweets fell into Ron's lap. It was dusk, and Ron and Ron had just turned up in the common room,

pink­faced from the cold wind and looking as though they'd had the time of their lives.

 "Thanks," said Ron, picking up a packet of tiny black Pepper Imps.

"What's Hogsmeade like? Where did you go?"

By the sound of it ­­ everywhere. Dervish and Banges, the wizarding equipment shop, Zonko's Joke Shop, into the Three Broomsticks for foaming mugs of hot butterbeer, and many places besides.

"The post office, Ron! About two hundred owls, all sitting on shelves,

all color­coded depending on how fast you want your letter to get there!"

"Honeydukes has got a new kind of fudge; they were giving out free samples, there's a bit, look ­­"

"We think we saw an ogre, honestly, they get all sorts at the Three Broomsticks ­­"

"Wish we could have brought you some butterbeer, really warms you up ­­"

"What did you do?" said Ron, looking anxious. "Did you get any work done?"

"No," said Ron. "Weasley made me a cup of tea in his office. And then Weasley came in...."

He told them all about the goblet. Ron's mouth fell open.

"Weasley drank it?" he gasped. "Is he mad?"

Ron checked her watch.

"We'd better go down, you know, the feast'll be starting in fiveminutes They hurried through the portrait hole and into the crowd, still discussing Weasley.

"But if he ­­ you know" ­­ Ron dropped her voice, glancing nervously around ­­ "if he was trying to to poison Weasley ­­ he wouldn't have done it in front of Ron."

 "Yeah, maybe," said Ron as they reached the entrance hall and crossed into the Great Hall. It had been decorated with hundreds and hundreds of candle­filled pumpkins, a cloud of fluttering live bats, and many flaming orange streamers, which were swimming lazily across the stormy ceiling like brilliant watersnakes.

The food was delicious; even Ron and Ron, who were full to bursting with Honeydukes sweets, managed second helpings of everything. Ron kept glancing at the staff table. Professor Weasley looked cheerful and as well as he ever did; he was talking animatedly to tiny little Professor Weasley, the Charms teacher. Ron moved his eyes along the table, to the place where Weasley sat. Was he imagining it, or were Weasley's eyes flickering toward Weasley more often than was natural?

The feast finished with an entertainment provided by the Hogwarts ghosts. They popped out of the walls and tables to do a bit of formation gliding; Nearly Headless Ron, the Weasley ghost, had a great success with a reenactment of his own botched beheading.

It had been such a pleasant evening that Ron's good mood couldn't even be spoiled by Weasley, who shouted through the crowd as they all left the hall, "The dementors send their love, Weasley!"

Ron, Ron, and Ron followed the rest of the Weasleys along the usual path to Weasley Tower, but when they reached the corridor that ended with the portrait of the Ron Weasley, they found it jammed with students.

"Why isn't anyone going in?" said Ron curiously.

Ron peered over the heads in front of him. The portrait seemed to be closed.

"Let me through, please," came Ron's voice, and he came bustling importantly through the crowd. "What's the holdup here? You can't all have forgotten the password ­­ excuse me, I'm Head Boy ­­"

And then a silence fell over the crowd, from the front first, so that a chill seemed to spread down the corridor. They heard Ron say, in a

suddenly sharp voice, "Somebody get Professor Weasley. Quick."

People's heads turned; those at the back were standing on tiptoe.

"What's going on?" said Ron, who had just arrived.

A moment later, Professor Weasley was there, sweeping toward the portrait; the Weasleys squeezed together to let him through, and Ron, Ron, and Ron moved closer to see what the trouble was.

"Oh, my ­­" Ron grabbed Ron's arm.

The Ron Weasley had vanished from her portrait, which had been slashed so viciously that strips of canvas littered the floor; great chunks of it had been torn away completely.

Weasley took one quick look at the ruined painting and turned, his eyes somber, to see Professors Weasley, Weasley, and Weasley hurrying toward him.

"We need to find her," said Weasley. "Professor Weasley, please go to Mr. Weasley at once and tell him to search every painting in the castle for the Ron Weasley."

"You'll be lucky!" said a cackling voice.

It was Ron the Poltergeist, bobbing over the crowd and looking delighted, as he always did, at the sight of wreckage or worry.

"What do you mean, Ron?" said Weasley calmly, and Ron's grin faded a little. He didn't dare taunt Weasley. Instead he adopted an oily voice that was no better than his cackle. "Ashamed, Your Headship,

sit. Doesn't want to be seen. She's a horrible mess. Saw her running through the landscape up on the fourth floor, sir, dodging between the trees. Crying something dreadful," he said happily. "Poor thing," he added unconvincingly.

"Did she say who did it?" said Weasley quietly.

"Oh yes, Professorhead," said Ron, with the air of one cradling a

large bombshell in his arms. "He got very angry when she wouldn't let him in, you see." Ron flipped over and grinned at Weasley from between his own legs. "Nasty temper he's got, that Ron Weasley."

 CHAPTER NINE GRIM DEFEAT

Professor Weasley sent all the Weasleys back to the Great Hall,

where they were joined ten minutes later by the students from Weasley, Weasley, and Weasley, who all looked extremely confused.

"The teachers and I need to conduct a thorough search of the castle,"

Professor Weasley told them as Professors Weasley and Weasley closed all doors into the hall. "I'm afraid that, for your own safety,

you will have to spend the night here. I want the prefects to stand guard over the entrances to the hall and I am leaving the Head Boy and Girl in charge. Any disturbance should be reported to me immediately,"

he added to Ron, who was looking immensely proud and important. "Send word with one of the ghosts."

Professor Weasley paused, about to leave the hall, and said, "Oh,

yes, you'll be needing..."

One casual wave of his wand and the long tables flew to the edges of the hall and stood themselves against the walls; another wave, and the floor was covered with hundreds of squashy purple sleeping bags.

"Sleep well," said Professor Weasley, closing the door behind him.

The hall immediately began to buzz excitedly; the Weasleys were telling the rest of the school what had just happened.

"Everyone into their sleeping bags!" shouted Ron. "Come on, now, no more talking! Lights out in ten minutes!"

"C'mon," Ron said to Ron and Ron; they seized three sleeping bags and dragged them into a corner.

"Do you think Weasley's still in the castle?" Ron whispered

anxiously.

"Weasley obviously thinks he might be," said Ron.

"It's very lucky he picked tonight, you know," said Ron as they climbed fully dressed into their sleeping bags and propped themselves on their elbows to talk. "The one night we weren't in the tower...."

I reckon he's lost track of time, being on the run," said Ron. "Didn't realize it was Halloween. Otherwise he'd have come bursting in here."

Ron shuddered.

All around them, people were asking one another the same question: "How did he get in?"

"Maybe he knows how to Apparate," said a Weasley a few feet away,

"Just appear out of thin air, you know."

"Disguised himself, probably," said a Weasley fifth year. "He could've flown in," suggested Ron Ron.

"Honestly, am I the only person who's ever bothered to read Hogwarts, A History?" said Ron crossly to Ron and Ron.

"Probably," said Ron. "Why?"

"Because the castle's protected by more than walls, You know,,, said Ron. "There are all sorts of enchantments on it, to stop people entering by stealth. You can't just Apparate in here. And I'd like to see the disguise that could fool those dementors. They're guarding every single entrance to the grounds. They'd have seen him fly in too. And Fitch knows all the secret passages, they'll have them covered...."

"The lights are going out now!" Ron shouted. "I want everyone in their sleeping bags and no more talking!"

The candles all went out at once. The only light now came from the silvery ghosts, who were drifting about talking seriously to the prefects, and the enchanted ceiling, which, like the sky outside, was

scattered with stars. What with that, and the whispering that still filled the hall, Ron felt as though he were sleeping outdoors in a light wind.

Once every hour, a teacher would reappear in the hall to check that everything was quiet. Around three in the morning, when many students had finally fallen asleep, Professor Weasley came in. Ron watched him looking around for Ron, who had been prowling between the sleeping bags, telling people off for talking. Ron was only a short way away from Ron, Ron, and Hermlone, who quickly pretended to be asleep as Weasley's footsteps drew nearer.

"Any sign of him, Professor?" asked Ron in a whisper.

"No. All well here?"

"Everything under control, sir."

"Good. There's no point moving them all now. I've found a temporary guardian for the Weasley portrait hole. You'll be able to move them back in tomorrow."

"And the Ron Weasley, sir?"

"Hiding in a map of Argyllshire on the second floor. Apparently she refused to let Weasley in without the password, so he attacked. She's still very distressed, but once she's calmed down, I'll have Mr. Weasley restore her."

Ron heard the door of the hall creak open again, and more footsteps.

"Headmaster?" It was Weasley. Ron kept quite still, listening hard. "The whole of the third floor has been searched. He's not there. And Weasley has done the dungeons; nothing there either."

"What about the Astronomy tower? Professor Weasley's room? The Owlery?"

"All searched."

 "Very well, Ron. I didn't really expect Weasley to linger."

"Have you any theory as to how he got in, Professor?" asked Weasley.

Ron raised his head very slightly off his arms to free his other ear,

"Many, Ron, each of them as unlikely as the next."

Ron opened his eyes a fraction and squinted up to where they stood; Weasley's back was to him, but he could see Ron's face, rapt with attention, and Weasley's profile, which looked angry.

"You remember the conversation we had, Headmaster, just before ­­ ah ­­ the start of term?" said Weasley, who was barely opening his lips, as though trying to block Ron out of the conversation.

"I do, Ron," said Weasley, and there was something like warning in his voice.

"It seems ­­ almost impossible ­­ that Weasley could have entered the school without inside help. I did express my concerns whet, you appointed ­­"

"I do not believe a single person inside this castle would have helped Weasley enter it," said Weasley, and his tone made it so clear that the subject was closed that Weasley didn't reply. "I must go down to the dementors," said Weasley. I said I would inform them when our search was complete."

"Didn't they want to help, sit?" said Ron.

"Oh yes," said Weasley coldly. "But I'm afraid no dementor will cross the threshold of this castle while I am headmaster."

Ron looked slightly abashed. Weasley left the hall, walking quickly and quietly. Weasley stood for a moment, watching the headmaster with an expression of deep resentment on his face; then he too left.

Ron glanced sideways at Ron and Ron. Both of them had their eyes open too, reflecting the starry ceiling.

 "\What was all that about?" Ron mouthed.

The school talked of nothing but Ron Weasley for the next few days. The theories about how he had entered the castle became wilder and wilder; Ron Weasley, from Weasley, spent much of their next Herbology class telling anyone who'd listen that Weasley could turn into a flowering shrub.

The Ron Weasley's ripped canvas had been taken off the wall and Replaced with the portrait of Sir Ron and his fat gray pony. Nobody was very happy about this. Sir Ron spent half his time challenging people to duels, and the rest thinking up ridiculously complicated passwords, which he changed at least twice a day.

"He's a complete lunatic," said Ron Weasley angrily to Ron. "Can't we get anyone else?"

"None of the other pictures wanted the job," said Ron. "Frightened of what happened to the Ron Weasley. Sir Ron was the only one brave enough to volunteer."

Sir Ron, however, was the least of Ron's worries. He was now being closely watched. Teachers found excuses to walk along corridors with him, and Ron Weasley (acting, Ron suspected, on his mother's orders) was tailing him everywhere like an extremely pompous guard dog. To cap it all, Professor Weasley summoned Ron into her office, with such a somber expression on her face Ron thought someone must have died.

"There's no point hiding it from you any longer, Weasley," she said in a very serious voice. "I know this will come as a shock to you, but Ron Weasley ­­"

"I know he's after me," said Ron wearily. "I heard Ron's dad telling his mum. Mr. Weasley works for the Ministry of Magic."

Professor Weasley seemed very taken aback. She stared at Ron for a moment or two, then said, "I see! Well, in that case, Weasley, you'll understand why I don't think it's a good idea for you to be practicing

Quidditch in the evenings. Out on the field with only Your team members,

it's very exposed, Weasley ­­"

"We've got our first match on Saturday!" said Ron, outraged. "I've got to train, Professor!"

Professor Weasley considered him intently. Ron knew she was deeply interested in the Weasley team's prospects; it had been she, after all, who'd suggested him as Seeker in the first Place. He waited,

holding his breath.

"Hmm..." Professor Weasley stood up and stared out of the window at the Quidditch field, just visible through the rain. "Well... goodness knows, I'd like to see us win the Cup at last... but all the same,

Weasley... I'd be happier if a teacher were present. I'll ask Ron Weasley to oversee your training sessions."

The weather worsened steadily as the first Quidditch match drew nearer.

Undaunted, the Weasley team was training harder than ever under the eye of Ron Weasley. Then, at their final training session before Saturday's match, Ron Weasley gave his team some unwelcome news.

"We're not playing Weasley!" he told them, looking very angry.

"Weasley's just been to see me. We're playing Weasley instead."

"Why?" chorused the rest of the team.

"Weasley's excuse is that their Seeker's arm's still injured," said Weasley,

grinding his teeth furiously. "But it's obvious why they're doing it.

Don't want to play in this weather. Think it'll damage their chances...."

There had been strong winds and heavy rain all day, and as Weasley spoke,

they heard a distant rumble of thunder.

"There's nothing wrong with Weasley's arm!" said Ron furiously. "He's faking it!"

"I know that, but we can't prove it," said Weasley bitterly, "And we've been practicing all those moves assuming we're playing Weasley, and

instead it's Weasley, and their style's quite different. They've got a new Captain and Seeker, Ron Weasley ­­"

Ron, Ron, and Ron suddenly giggled.

"What?" said Weasley, frowning at this lighthearted behavior.

"He's that tall, good­looking one, isn't he?" said Ron.

"Strong and silent," said Ron, and they started to giggle again.

"He's only silent because he's too thick to string two words together,"

said Ron impatiently. "I don't know why you're worried, Ron,

Weasley is a pushover. Last time we played them, Ron caught the Snitch in about five minutes, remember?"

"We were playing in completely different conditions!" Weasley shouted, his eyes bulging slightly. "Weasley's put a very strong side together! He's an excellent Seeker! I was afraid you'd take it like this! We mustn't relax! We must keep our focus! Weasley is trying to wrong­foot us! We must win!"

"Ron, calm down!" said Ron, looking slightly alarmed. "We're taking Weasley very seriously. Seriously."

The day before the match, the winds reached howling point and the rain fell harder than ever. It was so dark inside the corridors and classrooms that extra torches and lanterns were lit. The Weasley team was looking very smug indeed, and none more so than Weasley.

"Ah, if only my arm was feeling a bit better!" he sighed as the gale outside pounded the windows.

Ron had no room in his head to worry about anything except the match tomorrow. Ron Weasley kept hurrying up to him between classes and giving him tips. The third time this happened, Weasley talked for so long that Ron suddenly realized he was ten minutes late for Defense Against the Dark Arts, and set off at a run with Weasley shouting after him, "Weasley's got a very fast swerve, Ron, so you might want to try looping him ­­"

 Ron skidded to a halt outside the Defense Against the Dark Arts classroom, pulled the door open, and dashed inside.

"Sorry I'm late, Professor Weasley. I ­­"

But it wasn't Professor Weasley who looked up at him from the teacher's desk; it was Weasley.

"This lesson began ten minutes ago, Weasley, so I think we'll make it ten points from Weasley. Sit down."

But Ron didn't move.

"Where's Professor Weasley?" he said.

"He says he is feeling too ill to teach today," said Weasley with a twisted smile. "I believe I told you to sit down?"

But Ron stayed where he was.

"What's wrong with him?"

Weasley's black eyes glittered.

"Nothing life­threatening," he said, looking as though he wished it were. "Five more points from Weasley, and if I have to ask you to sit down again, it will be fifty."

Ron walked slowly to his seat and sat down. Weasley looked around at the class.

"As I was saying before Weasley interrupted, Professor Weasley has not left any record of the topics you have covered so far ­­"

"Please, sir, we've done boggarts, Red Caps, kappas, and grindylows,"

said Ron quickly, "and we're just about to start ­­"

"Be quiet," said Weasley coldly. "I did not ask for information. I was merely commenting on Professor Weasley's lack of organization."

 "He's the best Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher we've ever had,"

said Ron Ron boldly, and there was a murmur of agreement from the rest of the class. Weasley looked more menacing than ever.

"You are easily satisfied. Weasley is hardly overtaxing you ­­ I ,Would expect first years to be able to deal with Red Caps and grindylows.

Today we shall discuss ­­"

Ron watched him flick through the textbook, to the very back chapter,

which he must know they hadn't covered.

"Werewolves," said Weasley.

"But, sir," said Ron, seemingly unable to restrain herself, "we're not supposed to do werewolves yet, we're due to start hinkypunks ­­"

"Miss Weasley," said Weasley in a voice of deadly calm, "I was under the impression that I am teaching this lesson, not you. And I am telling you all to turn to page 394." He glanced around again. 'All of you! Now!"

With many bitter sidelong looks and some sullen muttering, the class opened their books.

"Which of you can tell me how we distinguish between the werewolf and the true wolf?" said Weasley.

Everyone sat in motionless silence; everyone except Ron, whose hand, as it so often did, had shot straight into the air.

"Anyone?" Weasley said, ignoring Ron. His twisted smile was back.

"Are you telling me that Professor Weasley hasn't even taught you the basic distinction between ­­"

"We told you," said Ron suddenly, "we haven't got as far as werewolves yet, we're still on ­­"

"Silence!" snarled Weasley. "Well, well, well, I never thought I'd meet a third­year class who wouldn't even recognize a werewolf when they saw one. I shall make a point of informing Professor Weasley how very behind you all are...."

 "Please, sir," said Ron, whose hand was still in the air, "the werewolf differs from the true wolf in several small ways. The snout of the werewolf ­­"

"That is the second time you have spoken out of turn, Miss Weasley,"

said Weasley coolly. "Five more points from Weasley for being an insufferable know­it­all."

Ron went very red, put down her hand, and stared at the floor with her eyes full of tears. It was a mark of how much the class loathed Weasley that they were all glaring at him, because every one of them had called Ron a know­it­all at least once, and Ron, who told Ron she was a know­it­all at least twice a week, said loudly, "You asked us a question and she knows the answer! Why ask if you don't want to be told?"

The class knew instantly he'd gone too far. Weasley advanced on Ron slowly, and the room held its breath.

"Detention, Weasley," Weasley said silkily, his face very close to Ron's.

"And if I ever hear you criticize the way I teach a class again, you will be very sorry indeed."

No one made a sound throughout the rest of the lesson. They sat and made notes on werewolves from the textbook, while Weasley prowled up and down the rows of desks, examining the work they had been doing with Professor Weasley.

"Very poorly explained... That is incorrect, the kappa is more commonly found in Mongolia.... Professor Weasley gave this eight out of ten? I wouldn't have given it three...."

When the bell rang at last, Weasley held them back.

"You will each write an essay, to be handed in to me, on the ways you recognize and kill werewolves. I want two rolls of parchment or, the subject, and I want them by Monday morning. It is time somebody took this class in hand. Weasley, stay behind, we need to arrange your detention."

 Ron and Ron left the room with the rest of the class, who waited until they were well out of earshot, then burst into a furious tirade about Weasley.

"Weasley's never been like this with any of our other Defense Against the Dark Arts teachers, even if he did want the job," Ron said to Ron. "Why's he got it in for Weasley? D'you think this is all because of the boggart?"

"I don't know," said Ron pensively. "But I really hope Professor Weasley gets better soon...."

Ron caught up with them five minutes later, in a towering rage.

"D'you know what that ­­" (he called Weasley something that made Ron say "Ron!") "­­ is making me do? I've got to scrub out the bedpans in the hospital wing. Without magic!" He was breathing deeply, his fists clenched. "Why couldn't Weasley have hidden in Weasley's office, eh? He could have finished him off for us!"

Ron woke extremely early the next morning; so early that it was till dark. For a moment he thought the roaring of the wind had woken him.

Then he felt a cold breeze on the back of his neck and sat bolt upright ­­ Ron the Poltergeist had been floating next to him, blowing hard in his ear.

"What did you do that for?" said Ron furiously. Ron puffed out his cheeks, blew hard, and zoomed backward out of the room, cackling.

Ron fumbled for his alarm clock and looked at it. It was half past four. Cursing Ron, he rolled over and tried to get back to sleep, but it was very difficult, now that he was awake, to ignore the sounds of the thunder rumbling overhead, the pounding of the wind against the castle walls, and the distant creaking of the trees in the Forbidden Forest. In a few hours he would be out on the Quidditch field, battling through that gale. Finally, he gave up any thought of more sleep, got up, dressed, picked up his Nimbus Two Thousand, and walked quietly out of the dormitory.

 As Ron opened the door, something brushed against his leg. He bent down just in time to grab Ron by the end of his bushy tail and drag him outside.

"You know, I reckon Ron was right about you," Ron told Ron suspiciously. "There are plenty of mice around this place ­­ go and chase them. Go on," he added, nudging Ron down the spiral staircase with his foot. "Leave Ron alone."

The noise of the storm was even louder in the common roorn. Ron knew better than to think the match would be canceled; Quidditch matches weren't called off for trifles like thunderstorms. Nevertheless, he was starting to feel very apprehensive. Weasley had pointed out Ron Weasley to him in the corridor; Weasley was a fifth year and a lot bigger than Ron. Seekers were usually light and speedy, but Weasley's weight would be an advantage in this weather because he was less likely to be blown off course.

Ron whiled away the hours until dawn in front of the fire, getting up every now and then to stop Ron from sneaking up the boys, staircase again. At long last Ron thought it must be time for breakfast, so he headed through the portrait hole alone.

"Rond and fight, you mangy cur!" yelled Sir Ron.

"Oh, shut up," Ron yawned.

He revived a bit over a large bowl of porridge, and by the time he'd started on toast, the rest of the team had turned up.

"It's going to be a tough one," said Weasley, who wasn't eating anything.

"Stop worrying, Ron," said Ron soothingly, "we don't mind a bit of rain."

But it was considerably more than a bit of rain. Such was the popularity of Quidditch that the whole school turned out to watch the match as usual, but they ran down the lawns toward the Quidditch field, heads

bowed against the ferocious wind, umbrellas being whipped out of their hands as they went. just before he entered the locker room, Ron saw Weasley, Weasley, and Weasley, laughing and pointing at him from under an enormous umbrella on their way to the stadium.

The team changed into their scarlet robes and waited for Weasley's usual pre­match pep talk, but it didn't come. He tried to speak several times,

made an odd gulping noise, then shook his head hopelessly and beckoned them to follow him.

The wind was so strong that they staggered sideways as they walked out onto the field. If the crowd was cheering, they couldn't hear it over the fresh rolls of thunder. Rain was splattering over Ron's glasses.

How on earth was he going to see the Snitch in this?

The Weasleys were approaching from the opposite side of the field,

wearing canary­yellow robes. The Captains walked up to eacb other and shook hands; Weasley smiled at Weasley but Weasley no, looked as though he had lockjaw and merely nodded. Ron saw Ron Weasley's mouth form the words,

"Mount Your brooms.,, He pulled his right foot out of the mud with a squelch and swung it over his Nimbus Two Thousand. Ron Weasley put her whistle to her lips and gave it a blast that sounded shrill and distant they were off Ron rose fast, but his Nimbus was swerving slightly with the wind. He held it as steady as he could and turned, squinting into the rain.

Within five minutes Ron was soaked to his skin and frozen, hardly able to see his teammates, let alone the tiny Snitch. He flew backward and forward across the field past blurred red and yellow shapes, with no idea of what was happening in the rest of the game. He couldn't hear the commentary over the wind. The crowd was hidden beneath a sea of cloaks and battered umbrellas. Twice Ron came very close to being unseated by a Bludger; his vision was so clouded by the rain on his glasses he hadn't seen them coming.

He lost track of time. It was getting harder and harder to hold his broom straight. The sky was getting darker, as though night had decided to come early. Twice Ron nearly hit another player, without knowing whether it was a teammate or opponent; everyone was now so wet, and the

rain so thick, he could hardly tell them apart....

With the first flash of lightning came the sound of Ron Weasley's whistle; Ron could just see the outline of Weasley through the thick rain, gesturing him to the ground. The whole team splashed down into the mud.

"I called for time­out!" Weasley roared at his team. "Come on, under here ­­"

They huddled at the edge of the field under a large umbrella; Ron took off his glasses and wiped them hurriedly on his robes.

"What's the score?"

"We're fifty points up," said Weasley, "but unless we get the Snitch soon,

we'll be playing into the night."

"I've got no chance with these on," Ron said exasperatedly, waving his glasses.

At that very moment, Ron appeared at his shoulder; she was holding her cloak over her head and was, inexplicably, beaming.

"I've had an idea, Ron! Give me your glasses, quick!"

He handed them to her, and as the team watched in amazement, Ron tapped them with her wand and said, "Impervius!"

"There!" she said, handing them back to Ron. "They'll repel water!"

Weasley looked as though he could have kissed her.

"Brilliant!" he called hoarsely after her as she disappeared into the crowd. "Okay, team, let's go for it!"

Ron's spell had done the trick. Ron was still numb with cold,

still wetter than he'd ever been in his life, but he could see. Full of fresh determination, he urged his broom through the turbulent air,

staring in every direction for the Snitch, avoiding a Bludger, ducking

beneath Weasley, who was streaking in the opposite direction....

There was another clap of thunder, followed immediately by forked lightning. This was getting more and more dangerous. Ron needed to get the Snitch quickly ­ He turned, intending to head back toward the middle of the field, but at that moment, another flash of lightning illuminated the stands, and Ron saw something that distracted him completely , the silhouette of an enormous shaggy black dog, clearly imprinted against the sky,

motionless in the topmost, empty row of seats.

Ron's numb hands slipped on the broom handle and his Nimbus dropped a few feet. Shaking his sodden bangs out of his eyes, he squinted back into the stands. The dog had vanished.

"Ron!" came Weasley's anguished yell from the Weasley goal posts.

"Ron, behind you!"

Ron looked wildly around. Ron Weasley was pelting up the field, and a tiny speck of gold was shimmering in the rain­filled air between them ­ With a jolt of panic, Ron threw himself flat to the broornhandle and zoomed toward the Snitch.

"Come on!" he growled at his Nimbus as the rain whipped his face.

'Taster!"

But something odd was happening. An eerie silence was falling across the stadium. The wind, though as strong as ever, was forgetting to roar. It was as though someone had turned off the sound, as though Ron had gone suddenly deaf ­­ what was going on?

And then a horribly familiar wave of cold swept over him, inside him,

just as he became aware of something moving on the field below...

Before he'd had time to think, Ron had taken his eyes off the Snitch and looked down.

 At least a hundred dementors, their hidden faces pointing up at him,

were standing beneath him. It was as though freezing water were rising in his chest, cutting at his insides. And then he heard it again....

Someone was screaming, screaming inside his head... a woman...

"Not Ron, not Ron, please not Ron!"

"Rond aside, you silly girl... stand aside, now...."

"Not Ron, please no, take me, kill me instead ­­"

Numbing, swirling white mist was filling Ron's brain.... What was he doing? Why was he flying? He needed to help her... She was going to die.... She was going to be murdered....

He was falling, falling through the icy mist.

"Not Ron! Please... have mercy... have mercy....

A shrill voice was laughing, the woman was screaming, and Ron knew no more.

"Lucky the ground was so soft."

"I thought he was dead for sure."

"But he didn't even break his glasses."

Ron could hear the voices whispering, but they made no sense whatsoever. He didn't have a clue where he was, or how he'd got there,

or what he'd been doing before he got there. All he knew was that every inch of him was aching as though it had been beaten.

"That was the scariest thing I've ever seen in my life."

Scariest... the scariest thing... hooded black figures... cold ...

screaming...

Ron's eyes snapped open. He was lying in the hospital wing. The Weasley Quidditch team, spattered with mud from head to foot, was

gathered around his bed. Ron and Ron were also there, looking as though they'd just climbed out of a swimming pool.

"Ron!" said Ron, who looked extremely white underneath, the mud.

"How're you feeling?"

It was as though Ron's memory was on fast forward. The lightning ­­ the Grim ­­ the Snitch ­­ and the dementors...

"What happened?" he said, sitting up so suddenly they all gasped.

"You fell off," said Ron. "Must've been ­­ what ­­ fifty feet?"

"We thought you'd died," said Ron, who was shaking.

Ron made a small, squeaky noise. Her eyes were extremely bloodshot.

"But the match," said Ron. "What happened? Are we doing a replay?"

No one said anything. The horrible truth sank into Ron like a stone.

"We didn't ­­ lose?"

"Weasley got the Snitch," said Ron. "Just after you fell. He didn't realize what had happened. When he looked back and saw you on the ground, he tried to call it off. Wanted a rematch. But they won fair and square... even Weasley admits it."

"Where is Weasley?" said Ron, suddenly realizing he wasn't there.

"Still in the showers," said Ron. "We think he's trying to drown himself."

Ron put his face to his knees, his hands gripping his hair. Ron grabbed his shoulder and shook it roughly.

"C'mon, Ron, you've never missed the Snitch before."

"There had to be one time you didn't get it," said Ron.

 "It's not over yet," said Ron. "We lost by a hundred points"

"Right? So if Weasley loses to Weasley and we beat Weasley and Weasley ­­."

"Weasley'll have to lose by at least two hundred points," said Ron.

"But if they beat Weasley..."

"No Way, Weasley is too good. But if Weasley loses against Weasley..."

"It all depends on the points ­­ a margin of a hundred either way."

Ron lay there, not saying a word. They had lost... for the first time ever, he had lost a Quidditch match.

After ten minutes or so, Ron Weasley came over to tell the team to leave him in peace.

"We'll come and see you later," Ron told him. "Don't beat yourself up,

Ron, you're still the best Seeker we've ever had."

The team trooped out, trailing mud behind them. Ron Weasley shut the door behind them, looking disapproving. Ron and Ron moved nearer to Ron's bed.

"Weasley was really angry," Ron said in a quaking voice. "I've never seen him like that before. He ran onto the field as You fell,

waved his wand, and you sort of slowed down before you hit the ground.

Then he whirled his wand at the dementors. Shot silver stuff at them.

They left the stadium right away... He was furious they'd come onto the grounds. We heard him ­­"

"Then he magicked you onto a stretcher," said Ron. "And walked up to school with you floating on it. Everyone thought you were ­­"

His voice faded, but Ron hardly noticed. He was thinking about what the dementors had done to him... about the screaming voice. He looked up

and saw Ron and Ron lookin, at him so anxiously that he quickly cast around for something matter­of­fact to say.

"Did someone get my Nimbus?"

Ron and Ron looked quickly at each other.

"Er ­­"

"What?" said Ron, looking from one to the other.

"Well... when you fell off, it got blown away," said Ron hesitantly.

"And?"

"And it hit ­­ it hit ­­ oh, Ron ­­ it hit the Whomping Willow."

Ron's insides lurched. The Whomping Willow was a very violent tree that stood alone in the middle of the grounds.

"And?" he said, dreading the answer.

"Well, you know the Whomping Willow," said Ron. "It ­­ it doesn't like being hit."

"Professor Weasley brought it back just before you came around, said Ron in a very small voice.

Slowly, she reached down for a bag at her feet, turned it upside down,

and tipped a dozen bits of splintered wood and twig onto the bed, the only remains of Ron's faithful, finally beaten broomstick.

 CHAPTER TEN THE MARAUDER'S MAP

Ron Weasley insisted on keeping Ron in the hospital wing for the rest of the weekend. He didn't argue or complain, but he wouldn't let her throw away the shattered remnants of his Nimbus Two Thousand. He

knew he was being stupid, knew that the Nimbus was beyond repair, but Ron couldn't help it; he felt as though he'd lost one of his best friends.

He had a stream of visitors, all intent on cheering him up. Weasley sent him a bunch of earwiggy flowers that looked like yellow cabbages, and Ron Weasley, blushing furiously, turned up with a get­well card she had made herself, which sang shrilly unless Ron kept it shut under his bowl of fruit. The Weasley team visited again on Sunday morning, this time accompanied by Weasley, who told Ron (in a hollow, dead sort of voice) that he didn't blame him in the slightest. Ron and Ron left Ron's bedside only at night­ But nothing anyone said or did could make Ron feel any better,

because they knew only half of what was troubling him.

He hadn't told anyone about the Grim, not even Ron ­and Ron,

because he knew Ron would panic and Ron would scoff. The fact remained, however, that it had now appeared twice, and both appearances had been followed by near­fatal accidents; the first time, he had nearly been run over by the Knight Bus; the second, fallen fifty feet from his broomstick. Was the Grim going to haunt him until he actually died? Was he going to spend the rest of his life looking over his shoulder for the beast?

And then there were the dementors. Ron felt sick and humiliated every time he thought of them. Everyone said the dementors were horrible, but no one else collapsed every time they went near one. No one else heard echoes in their head of their dying parents.

Because Ron knew who that screaming voice belonged to now. He had heard her words, heard them over and over again during the night hours in the hospital wing while he lay awake, staring at the strips of moonlight on the ceiling. When the dementors approached him, he heard the last moments of his mother's life, her attempts to protect him,

Ron, from Lord Weasley, and Weasley's laughter before he murdered her.... Ron dozed fitfully, sinking into dreams full of clammy, rotted hands and petrified pleading, jerking awake to dwell again on his

mother's voice.

It was a relief to return to the noise and bustle of the main school on Monday, where he was forced to think about other things, eve', if he had to endure Ron Weasleys taunting. Weasley was almost beside himself with glee at Weasley's defeat. He had finally taken off his bandages, and celebrated having the full use of both arms again by doing spirited imitations of Ron falling off his broom. Weasley spent much of their next Potions class doing dementor imitations across the dungeon; Ron finally cracked and flung a large, slippery crocodile heart at Weasley,

which hit him in the face and caused Weasley to take fifty points from Weasley.

"If Weasley's teaching Defense Against the Dark Arts again, I'm skiving off," said Ron as they headed toward Weasley's classroom after lunch.

"Check who's in there, Ron."

Ron peered around the classroom door.

"It's okay!"

Professor Weasley was back at work. It certainly looked as though he had been ill. His old robes were hanging more loosely on him and there were dark shadows beneath his eyes; nevertheless, he smiled at the class as they took their seats, and they burst at once into an explosion of complaints about Weasley's behavior while Weasley had been ill.

"It's not fair, he was only filling in, why should he give us homework?"

"We don't know anything about werewolves two rolls of parchment!"

"Did you tell Professor Weasley we haven't covered them yet?" Weasley asked,

frowning slightly.

The babble broke out again.

"Yes, but he said we were really behind he wouldn't listen ­­"

"­­ two rolls of parchment!"

 Professor Weasley smiled at the look of indignation on every face.

"Don't worry. I'll speak to Professor Weasley. You don't have to do the essay."

"Oh no," said Ron, looking very disappointed. "I've already finished it!"

They had a very enjoyable lesson. Professor Weasley had brought along a glass box containing a hinkypunk, a little one­legged creature who looked as though he were made of wisps of smoke, rather frail and harmless looking.

"Lures travelers into bogs," said Professor Weasley as they took notes.

"You notice the lantern dangling from his hand? Hops ahead ­people follow the light ­­ then ­­"

The hinkypunk made a horrible squelching noise against the glass.

When the bell rang, everyone gathered up their things and headed for the door, Ron among them, but ­­ "Wait a moment, Ron," Weasley called. "I'd like a word."

Ron doubled back and watched Professor Weasley covering the hinkypunk's box with a cloth.

"I heard about the match," said Weasley, turning back to his desk and starting to pile books into his briefcase, "and I'm sorry about your broomstick. Is there any chance of fixing it?"

"No," said Ron. "The tree smashed it to bits."

Weasley sighed.

"They planted the Whomping Willow the same year that I arrived at Hogwarts. People used to play a game, trying to get near enough to touch the trunk. In the end, a boy called Davey Gudgeon nearly lost an eye,

and we were forbidden to go near it. No broomstick would have a chance."

 "Did you hear about the dementors too?" said Ron with difficulty.

Weasley looked at him quickly.

"Yes, I did. I don't think any of us have seen Professor Weasley that angry. They have been growing restless for some time ­­ furious at his refusal to let them inside the grounds.... I suppose they were the reason you fell?"

"Yes," said Ron. He hesitated, and then the question he had to ask burst from him before he could stop himself." Why? Why do they affect me like that? Am I just ­­?"

"It has nothing to do with weakness," said Professor Weasley sharply, as though he had read Ron's mind. "The dementors affect you worse than the others because there are horrors in your past that the others don't have."

A ray of wintery sunlight fell across the classroom, illuminating Weasley's gray hairs and the lines on his young face.

"Dementors are among the foulest creatures that walk this earth. They infest the darkest, filthiest places, they glory in decay and despair,

they drain peace, hope, and happiness out of the air around them. Even Muggles feel their presence, though they can't see them. Get too near a dementor and every good feeling, every happy memory will be sucked out of you. If it can, the dementor will feed on you long enough to reduce you to something like itself... soul­less and evil. You'll be left with nothing but the worst experiences of your life. And the worst that happened to you, Ron, is enough to make anyone fall off their broom.

You have nothing to feel ashamed of."

"When they get near me ­­" Ron stared at Weasley's desk, his throat tight. "I can hear Weasley murdering my mum."

Weasley made a sudden motion with his arm as though to grip Ron's shoulder, but thought better of it. There was a moment's Silence, then ­­ "Why did they have to come to the match?" said Ron bitterly.

 "They're getting hungry," said Weasley coolly, shutting his briefcase with a snap. "Weasley won't let them into the school, so their supply of human prey has dried up.... I don't think they could resist the large crowd around the Quidditch field. All that excitement ... emotions running high... it was their idea of a feast."

"Azkaban must be terrible," Ron muttered. Weasley nodded grimly.

"The fortress is set on a tiny island, way out to sea, but they don't need walls and water to keep the prisoners in, not when they're all trapped inside their own heads, incapable of a single cheery thought.

Most of them go mad within weeks."

"But Ron Weasley escaped from them," Ron said slowly. "He got away..."

Weasley's briefcase slipped from the desk; he had to stoop quickly to catch it.

"Yes," he said, straightening up, "Weasley must have found a way to fight them. I wouldn't have believed it possible.... Dementors are supposed to drain a wizard of his powers if he is left with them too long...."

"You made that dementor on the train back off," said Ron suddenly.

"There are ­­ certain defenses one can use," said Weasley. "But there was only one dementor on the train. The more there are, the more difficult it becomes to resist."

"What defenses?" said Ron at once. "Can you teach me?"

"I don't pretend to be an expert at fighting dementors, Ron, quite the contrary..."

"But if the dementors come to another Quidditch match, I need to be able to fight them ­­"

Weasley looked into Ron's determined face, hesitated, then said,

"Well... all right. I'll try and help. But it'll have to wait until next

term, I'm afraid. I have a lot to do before the holidays. I chose a very inconvenient time to fall ill."

What with the promise of anti­dementor lessons from Weasley, the thought that he might never have to hear his mother's death again, and the fact that Weasley flattened Weasley in their Quidditch match at the end of November, Ron's mood took a definite upturn. Weasley were not out of the running after all, although they could not afford to lose another match. Weasley became repossessed of his manic energy, and worked his team as hard as ever in the chilly haze of rain that persisted into December. Ron saw no hint of a dementor within the grounds.

Weasley's anger seemed to be keeping them at their stations at the entrances.

Two weeks before the end of the term, the sky lightened suddenly to a dazzling, opaline white and the muddy grounds were revealed one morning covered in glittering frost. Inside the castle, there was a buzz of Christmas in the air. Professor Weasley, the Charms teacher, had already decorated his classroom with shimmering lights that turned out to be real, fluttering fairies. The students were all happily discussing their plans for the holidays. Both Ron and Ron had decided to remain at Hogwarts, and though Ron said it was because he couldn't stand two weeks with Ron, and Ron insisted she needed to use the library, Ron wasn't fooled; they were doing it to keep him company,

and he was very grateful.

To everyone's delight except Ron's, there was to be another Hogsmeade trip on the very last weekend of the term.

"We can do all our Christmas shopping there!" said Ron. "Mum and Dad would really love those Toothflossing Stringmints from Honeydukes!"

Resigned to the fact that he would be the only third year staying behind again, Ron borrowed a copy of Which Broomstick from Weasley, and decided to spend the day reading up on the different makes. He had been riding one of the school brooms at team practice, an ancient Shooting Star,

which was very slow and jerky; he definitely needed a new broom of his own.

On the Saturday morning of the Hogsmeade trip, Ron bid good­bye to Ron

and Ron, who were wrapped in cloaks and scarves, then turned up the marble staircase alone, and headed back toward Weasley Tower. Snow had started to fall outside the windows, and the castle was very still and quiet.

"Psst ­­ Ron!"

He turned, halfway along the third­floor corridor, to see Ron and Ron peering out at him from behind a statue of a humpbacked, one­eyed witch.

"What are you doing?" said Ron curiously. "How come you're not going to Hogsmeade?"

"We've come to give you a bit of festive cheer before we go," said Ron,

with a mysterious wink. "Come in here...."

He nodded toward an empty classroom to the left of the one­eyed statue.

Ron followed Ron and Ron inside. Ron closed the door quietly and then turned, beaming, to look at Ron.

"Early Christmas present for you, Ron," he said.

Ron pulled something from inside his cloak with a flourish and laid it on one of the desks. It was a large, square, very worn piece of parchment with nothing written on it. Ron, suspecting one of Ron and Ron's jokes, stared at it.

"What's that supposed to be?"

"This, Ron, is the secret of our success," said Ron, patting the parchment fondly.

"It's a wrench, giving it to you," said Ron, "but we decided last night, your need's greater than ours."

"Anyway, we know it by heart," said Ron. "We bequeath it to you. We don't really need it anymore."

"And what do I need with a bit of old parchment?" said Ron.

 "A bit of old parchment!" said Ron, closing his eyes with a grimace as though Ron had mortally offended him. "Explain, Ron."

"Well... when we were in our first year, Ron ­­ young, carefree, and innocent ­­"

Ron snorted. He doubted whether Ron and Ron had ever been innocent.

"Well, more innocent than we are now ­­ we got into a spot of bother with Weasley."

"We let off a Dungbomb in the corridor and it upset him for some reason ­­"

"So he hauled us off to his office and started threatening us with the usual ­­" detention disembowelment and we couldn't help noticing a drawer in one of his filing cabinets marked Confiscated and Highly Dangerous.

"Don't tell me ­­" said Ron, starting to grin.

"Well, what would you've done?" said Ron. "Ron caused a diversion by dropping another Dungbomb, I whipped the drawer open, and grabbed ­­ this."

"It's not as bad as it sounds, you know," said Ron. "We don't reckon Weasley ever found out how to work it. He probably suspected what it was,

though, or he wouldn't have confiscated it."

"And you know how to work it?"

"Oh yes," said Ron, smirking. "This little beauty's taught us more than all the teachers in this school."

"You're winding me up," said Ron, looking at the ragged old bit of parchment.

"Oh, are we?" said Ron.

 He took out his wand, touched the parchment lightly, and said, "I solemnly swear that I am up to no good."

And at once, thin ink lines began to spread like a spider's web from the point that Ron's wand had touched. They joined each other, they crisscrossed, they fanned into every corner of the parchment; then words began to blossom across the top, great, curly green words, that proclaimed:

Messrs. Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs Purveyors of Aids to Magical Mischief­Makers are proud to present THE MARAUDER'S MAP It was a map showing every detail of the Hogwarts castle and grounds.

But the truly remarkable thing were the tiny ink dots moving around it,

each labeled with a name in minuscule writing. Astounded, Ron bent over it. A labeled dot in the top left corner showed that Professor Weasley was pacing his study; the caretaker's cat, Mrs. Norris, was prowling the second floor; and Ron the Poltergeist was currently bouncing around the trophy room. And as Ron's eyes traveled up and down the familiar corridors, he noticed something else.

This map showed a set of passages he had never entered. And many of them seemed to lead ­ "Right into Hogsmeade," said Ron, tracing one of them with his finger.

"There are seven in all. Now, Weasley knows about these four" ­­ he pointed them out ­­ "but we're sure we're the only ones who know about these. Don't bother with the one behind the mirror on the fourth floor.

We used it until last winter, but it's caved in ­­ completely blocked.

And we don't reckon anyone's ever used this one, because the Whomping Willow's planted right over the entrance. But this one here, this one leads right into the cellar of Honeydukes. We've used it loads of times.

And as you might've noticed, the entrance is right outside this room,

through that one­eyed old crone's hump."

"Moony, Wormtaill Padfoot, and Prongs," sighed Ron, patting the heading of the map. "We owe them so much."

 "Noble men, working tirelessly to help a new generation of lawbreakers,"

said Ron solemnly.

"Right," said Ron briskly. "Don't forget to wipe it after you've used it or anyone can read it," Ron said warningly.

"Just tap it again and say, 'Mischief managed!' And it'll go blank."

"So, young Ron," said Ron, in an uncanny impersonation of Ron,

"mind you behave yourself."

"See you in Honeydukes," said Ron, winking.

They left the room, both smirking in a satisfied sort of way.

Ron stood there, gazing at the miraculous map. He watched the tiny ink Mrs. Norris turn left and pause to sniff at something on the floor. If Weasley really didn't know... he wouldn't have to pass the dementors at all....

But even as he stood there, flooded with excitement, something Ron had once heard Mr. Weasley say came floating out of his memory.

Never trust anything that can think for itself, if you can't see where it keeps its brain.

This map was one of those dangerous magical objects Mr. Weasley had been warning against.... Aids for Magical Mischief Makers... but then, Ron reasoned, he only wanted to use it to get into Hogsmeade, it wasn't as though he wanted to steal anything or attack anyone... and Ron and Ron had been using it for years without anything horrible happening....

Ron traced the secret passage to Honeydukes with his finger.

Then, quite suddenly, as though following orders, he rolled up the map,

stuffed it inside his robes, and hurried to the door of the classroom.

He opened it a couple of inches. There was no one outside. Very carefully, he edged out of the room and behind the statue of the

one­eyed witch.

What did he have to do? He pulled out the map again and saw to his astonishment, that a new ink figure had appeared upon it, labeled Ron Weasley. This figure was standing exactly where the real Ron was standing, about halfway down the third­floor corridor.

Ron watched carefully. His little Ink self appeared to be tapping the witch with his minute wand. Ron quickly took out his real wand and tapped the statue. Nothing happened. He looked back at the map. The tiniest speech bubble had appeared next to his figure. The word inside said, "Dissendium."

"Dissendium!" Ron whispered, tapping the stone witch again.

At once, the statue's hump opened wide enough to admit a fairly thin person. Ron glanced quickly up and down the corridor, then tucked the map away again, hoisted himself into the hole headfirst, and pushed himself forward.

He slid a considerable way down what felt like a stone slide, then landed on cold, damp earth. He stood up, looking around. It was pitch dark. He held up his wand, muttered, "Lumos! " and saw that he was in a very narrow, low, earthy passageway. He raised the map, tapped it with the tip of his wand, and muttered, "Mischief managed!" The map went blank at once. He folded it carefully, tucked it inside his robes, then,

heart beating fast, both excited and apprehensive, he set off.

The passage twisted and turned, more like the burrow of a giant rabbit than anything else. Ron hurried along it, stumbling now and then on the uneven floor, holding his wand out in front of him.

It took ages, but Ron had the thought of Honeydukes to sustain him.

After what felt like an hour, the passage began to rise. Panting, Ron sped up, his face hot, his feet very cold.

Ten minutes later, he came to the foot of some worn stone steps, which rose out of sight above him. Careful not to make any noise, Ron began to climb. A hundred steps, two hundred steps, he lost count as he

climbed, watching his feet.... Then, without warning, his head hit something hard.

It seemed to be a trapdoor. Ron stood there, massaging the top of his head, listening. He couldn't hear any sounds above him. Very slowly, he pushed the trapdoor open and peered over the edge.

He was in a cellar, which was full of wooden crates and boxes. Ron climbed out of the trapdoor and replaced it ­­ it blended so perfectly with the dusty floor that it was impossible to tell it was there. Ron crept slowly toward the wooden staircase that led upstairs. Now he could definitely hear voices, not to mention the tinkle of a bell and the opening and shutting of a door.

Wondering what he ought to do, he suddenly heard a door open much closer at hand; somebody was about to come downstairs.

"And get another box of Jelly Slugs, dear, they've nearly cleaned us out ­­" said a woman's voice.

A pair of feet was coming down the staircase. Ron leapt behind an enormous crate and waited for the footsteps to pass. He heard the man shifting boxes against the opposite wall. He might not get another chance ­­ Quickly and silently, Ron dodged out from his hiding place and climbed the stairs; looking back, he saw an enormous backside and shiny bald head, buried in a box. Ron reached the door at the top of the stairs,

slipped through it, and found himself behind the counter of Honeydukes ­­ he ducked, crept sideways, and then straightened up.

Honeydukes was so crowded with Hogwarts students that no one looked twice at Ron. He edged among them, looking around, and suppressed a laugh as he imagined the look that would spread over Ron's piggy face if he could see where Ron was now.

There were shelves upon shelves of the most succulent­looking sweets imaginable. Creamy chunks of nougat, shimmering pink squares of coconut ice, fat, honey­colored toffees; hundreds of different kinds of chocolate in neat rows; there was a large barrel of Every Flavor Beans,

 and another of Fizzing Whizbees, the levitating sherbert balls that Ron had mentioned; along yet another wall were "Special Effects" ­­ sweets:

Droobles Best Blowing Gum (which filled a room with bluebell­colored bubbles that refused to pop for days), the strange, splintery Toothflossing Stringmints, tiny black Pepper Imps ("breathe fire for your friends!"), Ice Mice ("hear your teeth chatter and squeak!"),

peppermint creams shaped like toads ("hop realistically in the stomach!"), fragile sugar­spun quills, and exploding bonbons.

Ron squeezed himself through a crowd of sixth years and saw a sign hanging in the farthest corner of the shop (UNUSUAL TASTES). Ron and Ron were standing underneath it, examining a tray of blood­flavored lollipops. Ron sneaked up behind them.

"Ugh, no, Ron won't want one of those, they're for vampires, I expect," Ron was saying.

"How about these?" said Ron, shoving a jar of Cockroach Clusters under Ron's nose.

"Definitely not," said Ron.

Ron nearly dropped the jar.

"Ron!" squealed Ron. "What are you doing here? How ­­ how did you ­­?"

"Wow!" said Ron, looking very impressed, "you've learned to Apparate!"

"'Course I haven't," said Ron. He dropped his voice so that none of the sixth years could hear him and told them all about the Marauder's Map.

"How come Ron and Ron never gave it to me!" said Ron, outraged. "I'm their brother!"

"But Ron isn't going to keep it!" said Ron, as though the idea were ludicrous. "He's going to hand it in to Professor Weasley,

aren't you, Ron?"

 "No, I'm not!" said Ron.

"Are you mad?" said Ron, goggling at Ron. "Hand in something that good?"

"If I hand it in, I'll have to say where I got it! Weasley would know Ron and Ron had nicked it!"

"But what about Ron Weasley?" Ron hissed. "He could be using one of the passages on that map to get into the castle! The teachers have got to know!"

"He can't be getting in through a passage," said Ron quickly. "There are seven secret tunnels on the map, right? Ron and Ron reckon Weasley already knows about four of them. And of the other three ­­ one of them's caved in, so no one can get through it. one of them's got the Whomping Willow planted over the entrance, so you can't get out of it.

And the one I just came through ­well ­ ­ it's really hard to see the entrance to it down in the cellar, so unless he knew it was there..."

Ron hesistated. What if Weasley did know the passage was there?

Ron, however, cleared his throat significantly, and pointed to a notice pasted on the inside of the sweetshop door.

­­­­­­­­BY ORDER OF ­­­­­­­­ THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC Customers are reminded that until further notice, dementors will be patrolling the streets of Hogsmeade every night after sundown. This measure has been put in place for the safety of Hogsmeade residents and will be lifted upon the recapture of Ron Weasley. It is therefore advisable that you complete your shopping well before nightfall.

Merry Christmas!

"See?" said Ron quietly. "I'd like to see Weasley try and break into Honeydukes with dementors swarming all over the village. Anyway,

Ron, the Honeydukes owners would hear a break­in, wouldn't they?

They live over the shop!"

 "Yes, but but ­­" Hermoine seemed to be struggling to find another problem. "Look, Ron still shouldn't be coming into Hogsmeade. He hasn't got a signed form! If anyone finds out, he'll be in so much trouble! And it's not nightfall yet ­­ what if Ron Weasley turns up today? Now?"

"He'd have a job spotting Ron in this," said Ron, nodding through the mullioned windows at the thick, swirling snow. "Come on, Ron, it's Christmas. Ron deserves a break."

Ron bit her lip, looking extremely worried.

"Are you going to report me?" Ron asked her, grinning.

"Oh ­­ of course not ­­ but honestly, Ron ­­"

"Seen the Fizzing Whizbees, Ron?" said Ron, grabbing him and leading him over to their barrel. "And the Jelly Slugs? And the Acid Pops? Ron gave me one of those when I was seven ­­ it burnt a hole right through my tongue. I remember Mum walloping him with her broomstick." Ron stared broodingly into the Acid Pop box. "Reckon Ron'd take a bit of Cockroach Cluster if I told him they were peanuts?"

When Ron and Ron had paid for all their sweets, the three of them left Honeydukes for the blizzard outside.

Hogsmeade looked like a Christmas card; the little thatched cottages and shops were all covered in a layer of crisp snow; there were holly wreaths on the doors and strings of enchanted candles hanging in the trees.

Ron shivered; unlike the other two, he didn't have his cloak. They headed up the street, heads bowed against the wind, Ron and Ron shouting through their scarves.

"That's the post office "Zonko's is up there ­­"

"We could go up to the Shrieking Shack

"Tell you what," said Ron, his teeth chattering, "shall we go for a butterbeer in the Three Broomsticks?"

Ron was more than willing; the wind was fierce and his hands were freezing, so they crossed the road, and in a few minutes were entering the tiny inn.

It was extremely crowded, noisy, warm, and smoky. A curvy sort of woman with a pretty face was serving a bunch of rowdy warlock' up at the bar.

"That's Ron Ron," said Ron. "I'll get the drinks, shall I?" he added, going slightly red.

Ron and Ron made their way to the back of the room, ,,her, there was a small, vacant table between the window and a handsome Christmas tree, which stood next to the fireplace. Ron came back five minutes later, carrying three foaming tankards of hot butterbeer.

"Merry Christmas!" he said happily, raising his tankard.

Ron drank deeply. It was the most delicious thing he'd ever tasted and seemed to heat every bit of him from the inside.

A sudden breeze ruffled his hair. The door of the Three Broomsticks had opened again. Ron looked over the rim of his tankard and choked.

Professors Weasley and Weasley had just entered the pub with a flurry of snowflakes, shortly followed by Weasley, who was deep in conversation with a portly man in a lime­green bowler hat and a pinstriped cloak ­­ Ron Weasley, Minister of Magic.

In an instant, Ron and Ron had both placed hands on the top of Ron's head and forced him off his stool and under the table. Dripping with butterbeer and crouching out of sight, Ron clutched his empty tankard and watched the teachers' and Weasley's feet move toward the bar,

pause, then turn and walk right toward him.

Somewhere above him, Ron whispered, Mobiliarbus!"

 The Christmas tree beside their table rose a few inches off the ground,

drifted sideways, and landed with a soft thump right in front of their table, hiding them from view. Staring through the dense lower branches,

Ron saw four sets of chair legs move back from the table right beside theirs, then heard the grunts and sighs If the teachers and minister as they sat down.

Next he saw another pair of feet, wearing sparkly turquoise high heels,

and heard a woman's voice. "A small gillywater ­­"

"Mine," said Professor Weasley's voice.

"Four pints of mulled mead ­­"

"Ta, Ron," said Weasley.

"A cherry syrup and soda with ice and umbrella ­­"

"Mmm!" said Professor Weasley, smacking his lips.

"So you'll be the red currant rum, Minister."

"Thank you, Ron, m'dear," said Weasley's voice. "Lovely to see you again, I must say. Have one yourself, won't you? Come and join us...."

"Well, thank you very much, Minister."

Ron watched the glittering heels march away and back again. His heart was pounding uncomfortably in his throat. Why hadn't it occurred to him that this was the last weekend of term for the teachers to& And how long were they going to sit there? He needed time to sneak back into Honeydukes if he wanted to return to school tonight.... Ron's leg gave a nervous twitch next to him.

"So, what brings you to this neck of the woods, Minister?" came Ron Ron's voice.

Ron saw the lower part of Weasley's thick body twist in his chair as though he were checking for eavesdroppers. Then he said in a quiet voice, "What else, m'dear, but Ron Weasley? I daresay you heard what

happened up at the school at Halloween?"

I did hear a rumor," admitted Ron Ron.

"Did you tell the whole pub, Weasley?" said Professor Weasley exasperatedly.

"Do you think Weasleys still in the area, Minister?" whispered Ron Ron.

"I'm sure of it," said Weasley shortly.

"You know that the dementors have searched the whole village twjce?"

said Ron Ron, a slight edge to her voice. "Scared all my customers away... It's very bad for business, Minister."

"Ron, dear, I don't like them any more than you do," said Weasley uncomfortably. "Necessary precaution... unfortunate, but there YOU are.... I've just met some of them. They're in a fury against Weasley ­­ he won't let them inside the castle grounds."

"I should think not," said Professor Weasley sharply. "How are we supposed to teach with those horrors floating around?"

"Hear, hear!" squeaked tiny Professor Weasley, whose feet were dangling a foot from the ground.

"All the same," demurred Weasley, "they are here to protect you all from something much worse.... We all know what Weasley's capable of..."

"Do you know, I still have trouble believing it," said Ron Ron thoughtfully. "Of all the people to go over to the Dark Side, Ron Weasley was the last I'd have thought... I mean, I remember him when he was a boy at Hogwarts. If you'd told me then what he was going to become, I'd have said you'd had too much mead."

"You don't know the half of it, Ron," said Weasley gruffly. "The worst he did isn't widely known."

"The worst?" said Ron Ron, her voice alive with curiosity, "Worse

than murdering all those poor people, you mean?"

"I certainly do," said Weasley.

"I ca'A believe that. What could possibly be worse?" "You say you remember him at Hogwarts, Ron," mur­ mured Professor Weasley.

"Do you remember who his­best friend was?"

"Naturally," said Ron Ron, with a small laugh. "Never saw one without the other, did you? The number of times I had them in here ­­ ooh, they used to make me laugh. Quite the double act, Ron Weasley and Ron Weasley!"

Ron dropped his tankard with a loud clunk. Ron kicked him.

"Precisely," said Professor Weasley. "Weasley and Weasley. Ringleaders of their little gang. Both very bright, of course ­­ exceptionally bright, in fact ­­ but I don't think we've ever had such a pair of troublemakers ­­"

"I dunno," chuckled Weasley. "Ron and Ron Weasley could give 'em a run fer their money."

"You'd have thought Weasley and Weasley were brothers!" chimed in Professor Weasley. "Inseparable!"

"Of course they were," said Weasley. "Weasley trusted Weasley beyond all his other friends. Nothing changed when they left school. Weasley was best man when Ron married Ron. Then they named him godfather to Ron. Ron has no idea, of course. You can imagine how the idea would torment him."

"Because Weasley turned out to be in league with You­Know­Who?" whispered Ron Ron.

"Worse even than that, rn'dear...." Weasley dropped his voice and proceeded in a sort of low rumble. "Not many people are aware that the Weasleys knew You­Know­Who was after them. Weasley, who was of course working tirelessly against You­Know­Who, had a number of useful spies.

One of them tipped him off, and he alerted Ron and Ron at once. He advised them to go into hiding. Well, of course, You­Know­Who wasn't an

easy person to hide from. Weasley told them that their best chance was the Fidelius Charm."

"How does that work?" said Ron Ron, breathless with interest.

Professor Weasley cleared his throat.

"An immensely complex spell," he said squeakily, "involving the magical concealment of a secret inside a single, living soul. The information is hidden inside the chosen person, or Secret­Keeper, and is henceforth impossible to find ­­ unless, of course, the Secret­Keeper chooses to divulge it. As long as the Secret­Keeper refused to speak, You­Know­Who could search the village where Ron and Ron were staying for years and never find them, not even if he had his nose pressed against their sitting room window!"

"So Weasley was the Weasleys' Secret­Keeper?" whispered Ron Ron.

"Naturally," said Professor Weasley. "Ron Weasley told Weasley that Weasley would die rather than tell where they were, that Weasley was planning to go into hiding himself... and yet, Weasley remained worried. I remember him offering to be the Weasleys' Secret­Keeper himself."

"He suspected Weasley?" gasped Ron Ron.

"He was sure that somebody close to the Weasleys had been keeping You­Know­Who informed of their movements," said Professor Weasley darkly. "Indeed, he had suspected for some time that someone on our side had turned traitor and was passing a lot of information to You­Know­Who."

"But Ron Weasley insisted on using Weasley?"

"He did," said Weasley heavily. "And then, barely a week after the Fidelius Charm had been performed ­­" "Weasley betrayed them?" breathed Ron Ron.

"He did indeed. Weasley was tired of his double­agent role, he was ready to declare his support openly for You­Know­Who, and he seems to have planned this for the moment of the Weasleys' death. But, as we all know,

 You­Know­Who met his downfall in little Ron Weasley. Powers gone,

horribly weakened, he fled. And this left Weasley in a very nasty position indeed. His master had fallen at the very moment when he, Weasley, had shown his true colors as a traitor. He had no choice but to run for it ­­"

"Filthy, stinkin' turncoat!" Weasley said, so loudly that half the bar went quiet.

"Shh!" said Professor Weasley.

"I met him!" growled Weasley. "I musta bin the last ter see him before he killed all them people! It was me what rescued Ron from Ron an' Ron's house after they was killed! jus' got him outta the ruins, poor little thing, with a great slash across his forehead, an' his parents dead... an' Ron Weasley turns up, on that flyin' motorbike he used ter ride. Never occurred ter me what he was doin' there. I didn' know he'd bin Ron an' Ron's Secret­Keeper. Thought he'd jus' heard the news o' You­Know­Who's attack an' come ter see what he could do. White an' shakin', he was. An' yeh know what I did? I COMFORRon THE MURDERIN' TRAITOR!" Weasley roared.

"Weasley, please!" said Professor Weasley. "Keep your voice down!"

"How was I ter know he wasn' upset abou' Ron an' Ron? It was You­Know­Who he cared abou'! An' then he says, 'Give Ron ter me,

Weasley, I'm his godfather, I'll look after him ­­' Ha! But I'd had me orders from Weasley, an' I told Weasley no, Weasley said Ron was ter go ter his aunt an' uncle's. Weasley argued, but in the end he gave in. Told me ter take his motorbike ter get Ron there. 'I won't need it anymore,' he says.

"I shoulda known there was somethin' fishy goin' on then. He loved that motorbike, what was he givin' it ter me for? Why wouldn' he need it anymore? Fact was, it was too easy ter trace. Weasley knew he'd bin the Weasleys' Secret­Keeper. Weasley knew he was goin' ter have ter run fer it that night, knew it was a matter o' hours before the Ministry was after him.

"But what if I'd given Ron to him, eh? I bet he'd 've pitched him off

the bike halfway out ter sea. His bes' friends' son! But when a wizard goes over ter the Dark Side, there's nothin' and no one that matters to em anymore...."

A long silence followed Weasley's story. Then Ron Ron said with some satisfaction, "But he didn't manage to disappear, did he? The Ministry of Magic caught up with him next day!"

"Alas, if only we had," said Weasley bitterly. "It was not we who found him. It was little Ron Weasley ­­ another of the Weasleys' friends.

Maddened by grief, no doubt, and knowing that Weasley had been the Weasleys' Secret­Keeper, he went after Weasley himself."

"Weasley... that fat little boy who was always tagging around after them at Hogwarts?" said Ron Ron.

"Hero­worshipped Weasley and Weasley," said Professor Weasley. "Never quite in their league, talent­wise. I was often rather ,harp with him.

You can imagine how I ­how I regret that now..." She sounded as though she had a sudden head cold.

"There, now, Ron," said Weasley kindly, "Weasley died a hero's death. Eyewitnesses ­­ Muggles, of course, we wiped their, memories later ­­ told us how Weasley cornered Weasley. They say he was sobbing,

'Ron and Ron, Ron! How could you?' And then he went for his wand.

Well, of course, Weasley was quicker. Blew Weasley to smithereens...."

Professor Weasley blew her nose and said thickly, "Stupid boy ...

foolish boy... he was always hopeless at dueling... should have left it to the Ministry...."

"I tell yeh, if I'd got ter Weasley before little Weasley did, I wouldn't 've messed around with wands ­­ I'd 've ripped him limb ­­ from ­­ limb," Weasley growled.

"You don't know what you're talking about, Weasley," said Weasley sharply.

"Nobody but trained Hit Wizards from the Magical Law Enforcement Squad would have stood a chance against Weasley once he was cornered. I was Junior Minister in the Department of Magical Catastrophes at the time,

and I was one of the first on the scene after Weasley murdered all those

people. I ­­ I will never forget it. I still dream about it sometimes. A crater in the middle of the street, so deep it had cracked the sewer below. Bodies everywhere. Muggles screaming. And Weasley standing there laughing, with what was left of Weasley in front of him... a heap of bloodstained robes and a few ­­ a few fragments ­­"

Weasley's voice stopped abruptly. There was the sound of five noses being blown.

"Well, there you have it, Ron," said Weasley thickly. "Weasley was taken away by twenty members of the Magical Law Enforcement 'Squad and Weasley received the Order of Merlin, First Class, which I think was some comfort to his poor mother. Blades been in Azkaban ever since."

Ron Ron let out a long sigh.

"Is it true he's mad, Minister?"

"I wish I could say that he was," said Weasley slowly. "I certainly believe his master's defeat unhinged him for a while. The murder of Weasley and all those Muggles was the action of a cornered and desperate man ­­ cruel... pointless. Yet I met Weasley on my last inspection of Azkaban. You know, most of the prisoners in there sit muttering to themselves in the dark; there's no sense in them... but I was shocked at how normal Weasley seemed. He spoke quite rationally to me.

It was unnerving. You'd have thought he was merely bored ­­ asked if I'd finished with my newspaper, cool as you please, said he missed doing the crossword. Yes, I was astounded at how little effect the dementors seemed to be having on him ­­ and he was one of the most heavily guarded in the place, you know. Dementors outside his door day and night."

"But what do you think he's broken out to do?" said Ron Ron.

"Good gracious, Minister, he isn't trying to rejoin You­Know­Who, is he?"

I daresay that is his ­­ er ­­ eventual plan," said Weasley evasively.

"But we hope to catch Weasley long before that. I must say, You­Know­Who alone and friendless is one thing... but give him back his most devoted servant, and I shudder to think how quickly he'll rise again...."

 There was a small chink of glass on wood. Someone had set down their glass.

"You know, Ron, if you're dining with the headmaster, he'd better head back up to the castle," said Professor Weasley.

One by one, the pairs of feet in front of Ron took the weight of their owners once more; hems of cloaks swung into sight, and Ron Rosemerta's glittering heels disappeared behind the bar. The door of the Three Broomsticks opened again, there was another flurry of snow, and the teachers had disappeared.

"Ron?"

Ron's and Ron's faces appeared under the table. They were both staring at him, lost for words.

 CHAPTER ELEVEN THE FIREBOLT

Ron didn't have a very clear idea of how he had managed to get back into the Honeydukes cellar, through the tunnel, and into the castle once more. All he knew was that the return trip seemed to take no time at all, and that he hardly noticed what he was doing, because his head was still pounding with the conversation he had just heard.

Why had nobody ever told him? Weasley, Weasley, Mr. Weasley, Ron Weasley... why hadn't anyone ever mentioned the fact that Ron's parents had died because their best friend had betrayed them?

Ron and Herinione watched Ron nervously all through dintier, not daring to talk about what they'd overheard, because Ron was sitting close by them. When they went upstairs to the crowded common room, it was to find Ron and Ron had set off half a dozen Dungbombs in a fit of end­ of­term high spirits. Ron, who didn't want Ron and Ron asking him whether he'd reached Hogsmeade or not, sneaked quietly up to the empty dormitory and headed straight for his bedside cabinet. He pushed his books aside and quickly found what he was looking for ­­ the leather­bound photo album Weasley had given him two years ago, which was

full of wizard pictures of his mother and father. He sat down on his bed, drew the hangings around him, and started turning the pages,

searching, until...

He stopped on a picture of his parents' wedding day. There was his father waving up at him, beaming, the untidy black hair Ron had inherited standing up in all directions. There was his mother, alight with happiness, arm in arm with his dad. And there ... that must be him.

Their best man... Ron had never given him a thought before.

If he hadn't known it was the same person, he would never have guessed it was Weasley in this old photograph. His face wasn't sunken and waxy,

but handsome, full of laughter. Had he already been working for Weasley when this picture had been taken? Was he already planning the deaths of the two people next to him? Did he realize he was facing twelve years in Azkaban, twelve years that would make him unrecognizable?

But the dementors don't affect him, Ron thought, staring into the handsome, laughing face. He doesn't have to hear my Min screaming if they get too close ­ Ron slammed the album shut, reached over and stuffed it back into his cabinet, took off his robe and glasses and got into bed, making sure the hangings were hiding him from view.

The dormitory door opened.

"Ron?" said Ron's voice uncertainly.

But Ron still, pretending to be asleep. He heard Ron leave again, and rolled over on his back, his eyes wide open.

A hatred such as he had never known before was coursing through Ron like poison. He could see Weasley laughing at him through the darkness, as though somebody had pasted the picture from the album over his eyes. He watched, as though somebody was playing him a piece of film, Ron Weasley blasting Ron Weasley (who resembled Ron Weasley) into a thousand pieces. He could hear (though having no idea what Weasley's voice might sound like) a low, excited mutter. "It has happened, My Lord...

 the Weasleys have made me their Secret­Keeper and then came another voice, laughing shrilly, the same laugh that Ron heard inside his head whenever the dementors drew near....

"Ron, you ­­ you look terrible."

Ron hadn't gotten to sleep until daybreak. He had awoken to find the dormitory deserted, dressed, and gone down the spiral staircase to a common room that was completely empty except for Ron, who was eating a Peppermint Toad and massaging his stomach, and Ron, who had spread her homework over three tables.

"Where is everyone?" said Ron.

"Gone! It's the first day of the holidays, remember?" said Ron, watching Ron closely. "It's nearly lunchtime; I was going to come and wake you up in a minute."

Ron slumped into a chair next to the fire. Snow was still falling outside the windows. Ron was spread out in front of the fire like a large, ginger rug.

"You really don' look well, you know," Ron said, peering anxiously into his face.

"I'm fine," said Ron.

"Ron, listen," said Ron, exchanging a look with Ron, you must be really upset about what we heard yesterday. But the thing is, you mustn't go doing anything stupid."

"Like what?" said Ron.

"Like trying to go after Weasley," said Ron sharply.

Ron could tell they had rehearsed this conversation while he had been asleep. He didn't say anything.

"You won't, will you, Ron?" said Ron.

 "Because Weasley's not worth dying for," said Ron.

Ron looked at them. They didn't seem to understand at all.

"D'you know what I see and hear every time a dementor gets too near me?"

Ron and Ron shook their heads, looking apprehensive. "I can hear my mum screaming and pleading with Weasley. And if you'd heard your mum screaming like that, just about to be killed, you wouldn't forget it in a hurry. And if you found out someone who was supposed to be a friend of hers betrayed her and sent Weasley after her ­­"

"There's nothing you can do!" said Ron, looking stricken. "The dementors will catch Weasley and he'll go back to Azkaban and ­­ and serve him right!"

"You heard what Weasley said. Weasley isn't affected by Azkaban like normal people are. It's not a punishment for him like it is for the others."

"So what are you saying?" said Ron, looking very tense. "You want to ­­ to kill Weasley or something?"

"Don't be silly," said Herinione in a panicky voice. "Ron doesn't want to kill anyone, do you, Ron?"

Again, Ron didn't answer. He didn't know what he wanted to do. All he knew was that the idea of doing nothing, while Weasley was at liberty, was almost more than he could stand.

Weasley knows," he said abruptly. "Remember what he said to me in Potions? 'If it was me, I'd hunt him down myself... I'd want revenge.

"You're going to take Weasley's advice instead of ours?" said Ron furiously. "Listen... you know what Weasley's mother got back after Weasley had finished with him? Dad told me ­­ the Order of Merlin, First Class, and Weasley's finger in a box. That was the biggest bit of him they could find. Weasley's a madman, Ron, and he's dangerous ­­"

"Weasley's dad must have told him," said Ron, ignoring Ron. "He was right in Weasley's inner circle ­­"

 "Say You­Know­Who, will you?" interjected Ron angrily.

"­­ so obviously, the Weasleys knew Weasley was working for Weasley ­­"

"­­ and Weasley'd love to see you blown into about a million pieces, like Weasley! Get a grip. Weasley's just hoping you'll get Yourself killed before he has to play you at Quidditch."

"Ron, please," said Ron, her eyes now shining with tears, "Please be sensible. Weasley did a terrible, terrible thing, but d­don't Put Yourself in danger, it's what Weasley wants.... Oh, Ron, you'd be Playing right into Weasley's hands if you went looking for him. Your mum and dad wouldn't want you to get hurt, would they? They'd never want you to go looking for Weasley!"

"I'll never know what they'd have wanted, because thanks to Weasley, I've never spoken to them," said Ron shortly.

There was a silence in which Ron stretched luxuriously flexing his claws. Ron's pocket quivered.

"Look," said Ron, obviously casting around for a change of subject,

"it's the holidays! It's nearly Christmas! Let's ­­ let's go down and see Weasley. We haven't visited him for ages!"

"No!" said Ron quickly. "Ron isn't supposed to leave the castle,

Ron ­­"

"Yeah, let's go," said Ron, sitting up, "and I can ask him how come he never mentioned Weasley when he told me all about my parents!"

Further discussion of Ron Weasley plainly wasn't what Ron had had in mind.

"Or we could have a game of chess, he said hastily, "or Gobstones. Ron left a set ­­"

"No, let's visit Weasley," said Ron firmly.

So they got their cloaks from their dormitories and set off through the

portrait hole ("Rond and fight, you yellow­bellied mongrels!"), down through the empty castle and out through the oak front doors.

They made their way slowly down the lawn, making a shallow trench in the glittering, powdery snow, their socks and the hems of their cloaks soaked and freezing. The Forbidden Forest looked as though it had been enchanted, each tree smattered with silver, and Weasley's cabin looked like an iced cake.

Ron knocked, but there was no answer.

"He's not out, is he?" said Ron, who was shivering under her cloak.

Ron had his ear to the door.

"There's a weird noise," he said. "Listen ­­ is that Ron?"

Ron and Ron put their ears to the door too. From inside the cabin came a series of low, throbbing moans.

"Think we'd better go and get someone?" said Ron nervously.

"Weasley!" called Ron, thumping the door. "Weasley, are you in there.

There was a sound of heavy footsteps, then the door creaked open. Weasley stood there with his eyes red and swollen, tears splashing down the front of his leather vest.

"YWve heard?" he bellowed, and he flung himself onto Ron's neck.

Weasley being at least twice the size of a normal man, this was no laughing matter. Ron, about to collapse under Weasley's weight, was rescued by Ron and Ron, who each seized Weasley under an arm and heaved him back into the cabin. Weasley allowed himself to be steered into a chair and slumped over the table, sobbing uncontrollably, his face glazed with tears that dripped down into his tangled beard.

"Weasley, what is it?" said Ron, aghast.

Ron spotted an official­looking letter lying open on the table.

 "What's this, Weasley?"

Weasley's sobs redoubled, but he shoved the letter toward Ron, who Picked it up and read aloud:

Dear Mr. Weasley,

Further to our inquiry into the attack by a hippogriff on a student in your class, we have accepted the assurances of Professor Weasley that you bear no responsibility for the regrettable incident.

"Well, that's okay then, Weasley!" said Ron, clapping Weasley oil the shoulder. But Weasley continued to sob, and waved one of his gigantic hands, inviting Ron to read on.

However, we must register our concern about the hippogriff in question.

We have decided to uphold the official complaint of Mr. Ron Weasley,

and this matter will therefore be taken to the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures. The hearing will take place on April 20th, and we ask you to present yourself and your hippogriff at the Committee's offices in London on that date. In the meantime, the hippogriff should be kept tethered and isolated. Yours in fellowship...

There followed a list of the school governors.

"Oh," said Ron. "But you said Ron isn't a bad hippogriff, Weasley. I bet he'll get off "Yeh don' know them gargoyles at the Committee fer the Disposal o' Dangerous Creatures!" choked Weasley, wiping his eyes on his sleeve.

"They've got it in fer interestin' creatures!"

A sudden sound from the corner of Weasley's cabin made Ron, Ron, and Ron whip around. Ron the hippogriff was lying in the corner,

chomping on something that was oozing blood all over the floor.

"I couldn' leave him tied up out there in the snow!" choked Weasley. "All on his own! At Christmas."

 Ron, Ron, and Ron looked at one another. They had never seen eye to eye with Weasley about what he called "interesting creatures" and other people called "terrifying monsters." Or' the other hand, there didn't seem to be any particular harm in Ron. In fact, by Weasley's usual standards, he was positively cute.

"You'll have to put up a good strong defense, Weasley," said Ron,

sitting down and laying a hand on Weasley's massive forearm. "I'm sure you can prove Ron is safe."

"Won't make no diff'rence!" sobbed Weasley. "Them Disposal devils,

they're all in Ron Weasley's pocket! Scared o' him! Ad if I lose the case, Ron ­­"

Weasley drew his finger swiftly across his throat, then gave a great wail and lurched forward, his face in his arms.

"What about Weasley, Weasley?" said Ron.

"He's done more'n enough fer me already," groaned Weasley. "Got enough on his plate what with keepin' them dementors outta the castle, an' Ron Weasley lurkin' around ­­"

Ron and Ron looked quickly at Ron, as though expecting him to start berating Weasley for not telling him the truth about Weasley. But Ron couldn't bring himself to do it, not now that he saw Weasley so miserable and scared.

"Listen, Weasley," he said, "you can't give up. Ron's right, You just need a good defense. You can call us as witnesses ­­"

"I'm sure I've read about a case of hippogriff­baiting," said Ron thoughtfully, "where the hippogriff got off I'll look it up for you,

Weasley, and see exactly what happened."

Weasley howled still more loudly. Ron and Ron looked at Ron to help them.

"Er ­­ shall I make a cup of tea?" said Ron.

 Ron stared at him.

"It's what my mum does whenever someone's upset," Ron muttered,

shrugging.

At last, after many more assurances of help, with a steaming mug of tea in front of him, Weasley blew his nose on a handkerchief the size of a tablecloth and said, "Yer right. I can' afford to go ter pieces. Gotta pull meself together.....

Ron the boarhound came timidly out from under the table and laid his head on Weasley's knee.

"I've not bin meself lately," said Weasley, stroking Ron with one hand and mopping his face with the other. "Worried abou' Ron, an' no one likin' me classes ­­"

"We do like them!" lied Ron at once.

"Yeah, they're great!" said Ron, crossing his fingers under the table.

"Er ­­ how are the flobberworms?"

"Dead," said Weasley gloomily. "Too much lettuce."

"Oh no!" said Ron, his lip twitching.

"An' them dementors make me feel ruddy terrible an' all," said Weasley,

with a sudden shudder. "Gotta walk past 'em ev'ry time I want a drink in the Three Broomsticks. 'S like bein' back in Azkaban ­­"

He fell silent, gulping his tea. Ron, Ron, and Ron watched him breathlessly. They had never heard Weasley talk about his brief spell in Azkaban before. After a pause, Ron said timidly, "Is it awful in there, Weasley?"

"Yeh've no idea," said Weasley quietly. "Never bin anywhere like it.

Thought I was goin' mad. Kep' goin' over horrible stuff in me mind...

the day I got expelled from Hogwarts... day me dad died... day I had ter let Ron go...."

 His eyes filled with tears. Ron was the baby dragon Weasley had once won in a game of cards.

"Yeh can' really remember who yeh are after a while. An' yeh can' really see the point o' livin' at all. I used ter hope I'd jus' die in me sleep. When they let me out, it was like bein' born again, ev'rythin' I came floodin' back, it was the bes' feelin' in the world. Mind, the dementors weren't keen on lettin' me go."

"But you were innocent!" said Ron.

Weasley snorted.

"Think that matters to them? They don' care. Long as they've got a couple o' hundred humans stuck there with 'em, so they can leech all the happiness out of 'em, they don' give a damn who's guilty an' who's not."

Weasley went quiet for a moment, staring into his tea. Then he said quietly, "Thought o' jus' letting Ron go... tryin' ter make him fly away... but how d'yeh explain ter a hippogriff it's gotta go inter hidin'? An' ­an' I'm scared o' breakin' the law...." He looked up at them, tears leaking down his face again. "I don' ever want ter go back ter Azkaban."

The trip to Weasley's, though far from fun, had nevertheless had the effect Ron and Ron had hoped. Though Ron had by no means forgotten about Weasley, he couldn't brood constantly on revenge if he wanted to help Weasley win his case against the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures. He, Ron, and Ron went to the library the next day and returned to the empty common room laden with books that might help prepare a defense for Ron. The three of them sat in front of the roaring fire, slowly turning the pages of dusty volumes about famous cases If marauding beasts, speaking occasionally when they ran across something relevant.

"Here's something... there was a case in 1722... but the hippogriff was convicted ­­ ugh, look what they did to it, that's disgusting ­­"

"This might help, look ­­ a manticore savaged someone in 1296, and they let the manticore off ­­ oh ­­ no, that was only because everyone was

too scared to go near it."

Meanwhile, in the rest of the castle, the usual magnificent Christmas decorations had been put up, despite the fact that hardly any of the students remained to enjoy them. Thick streamers of holly and mistletoe were strung along the corridors, mysterious lights shone from inside every suit of armor, and the Great Hall was filled with its usual twelve Christmas trees, glittering with golden stars. A powerful and delicious smell of cooking pervaded the corridors, and by Christmas Eve, it had grown so strong that even Ron poked his nose out of the shelter of Ron's pocket to sniff hopefully at the air.

On Christmas morning, Ron was woken by Ron throwing his pillow at him.

"Oy! Presents!"

Ron reached for his glasses and put them on, squinting through the semi­darkness to the foot of his bed, where a small heap of parcels had appeared. Ron was already ripping the paper off his own presents.

'Another sweater from Mum... maroon again... see if you've got one.

Ron had. Mrs. Weasley had sent him a scarlet sweater with the Weasley lion knitted on the front, also a dozen home­baked mince pies, some Christmas cake, and a box of nut brittle. As he moved all these things aside, he saw a long, thin package lying underneath.

"What's that?" said Ron, looking over, a freshly unwrapped pair of maroon socks in his hand.

"Dunno..."

Ron ripped the parcel open and gasped as a magnificent, gleaming broomstick rolled out onto his bedspread. Ron dropped his socks and jumped off his bed for a closer look.

"I don't believe it," he said hoarsely.

It was a Firebolt, identical to the dream broom Ron had gone to see every day in Diagon Alley. Its handle glittered as he picked it up. He

could feel it vibrating and let go; it hung in midair, unsupported, at exactly the right height for him to mount it. His eyes moved from the golden registration number at the top of the handle, right down to the perfectly smooth, streamlined birch twigs that made up the tail.

"Who sent it to you?" said Ron in a hushed voice.

"Look and see if there's a card," said Ron.

Ron ripped apart the Firebolt's wrappings.

"Nothing! Blimey, who'd spend that much on you?"

"Well," said Ron, feeling stunned, "I'm betting it wasn't the Weasleys."

I bet it was Weasley," said Ron, now walking around and around the Firebolt, taking in every glorious inch. "He sent you the Invisibility Cloak anonymously...."

"That was my dad's, though," said Ron. "Weasley was just Passing it on to me. He wouldn't spend hundreds of Galleons on me. He can't go giving students stuff like this ­­"

"That's why he wouldn't say it was from him!" said Ron. "In case some git like Weasley said it was favoritism. Hey, Ron" ­­ Ron gave a great whoop of laughter ­­ "Weasley! Wait till he sees you on this! He'll be sick as a pig! This is an international standard broom, this is!"

"I can't believe this," Ron muttered, running a hand along the Firebolt, while Ron sank onto Ron's bed, laughing his head off at the thought of Weasley. "Who ­?"

"I know," said Ron, controlling himself, "I know who it could've been ­­ Weasley!"

"What?" said Ron, now starting to laugh himself "Weasley? Listen, if he had this much gold, he'd be able to buy himself some new robes."

"Yeah, but he likes you," said Ron. "And he was away when your Nimbus

got smashed, and he might've heard about it and decided to visit Diagon Alley and get this for you ­­"

"What d'you mean, he was away?" said Ron. "He was ill when I was playing in that match."

"Well, he wasn't in the hospital wing," said Ron. "I was there, cleaning out the bedpans on that detention from Weasley, remember?"

Ron frowned at Ron.

"I can't see Weasley affording something like this."

"What're you two laughing about?"

Ron had just come in, wearing her dressing gown and carrying Ron, who was looking very grumpy, with a string of tinsel tied around his neck.

"Don't bring him in here!" said Ron, hurriedly snatching Ron from the depths of his bed and stowing him in his pajama pocket.

But Ron wasn't listening. She dropped Ron onto Ron's empty bed and stared, open­mouthed, at the Firebolt.

"Oh, Ron! Who sent you that?"

"No idea," said Ron. "There wasn't a card or anything with it."

To his great surprise, Ron did not appear either excited or intrigued by the news. On the contrary, her face fell, and she bit her lip.

"What's the matter with you?" said Ron.

"I don't know," said Ron slowly, "but it's a bit odd, isn't it? I mean, this is supposed to be quite a good broom, isn't it?"

Ron sighed exasperatedly.

 "It's the best broom there is, Ron," he said.

"So it must've been really expensive...."

"Probably cost more than all the Weasleys' brooms put together," said Ron happily.

"Well... who'd send Ron something as expensive as that, and not even tell him they'd sent it?" said Ron.

"Who cares?" said Ron impatiently. "Listen, Ron, can I have a go on it? Can I?"

"I don't think anyone should ride that broom just yet!" said Ron shrilly.

Ron and Ron looked at her.

"What d'you think Ron's going to do with it ­­ sweep the floor?" said Ron.

But before Ron could answer, Ron sprang from Ron's bed,

right at Ron's chest.

"GET ­­ HIM ­­ OUT ­­ OF ­­ HERE!" Ron bellowed as Ron's claws ripped his pajamas and Ron attempted a wild escape over his shoulder. Ron seized Ron by the tail and aimed a misjudged kick at Ron that hit the trunk at the end of Ron's bed, knocking it over and causing Ron to hop up and down, howling with pain.

Ron's fur suddenly stood on end. A shrill, tint,, whistling was filling the room. The Pocket Sneakoscope had become dislodged from Uncle Ron's old socks and was whirling and gleaming on the floor.

I forgot about that!" Ron said, bending down and picking up the Sneakoscope. I never wear those socks if I can help it....

The Sneakoscope whirled and whistled in his palm. Ron was hissing and spitting at it.

 "You'd better take that cat out of here, Ron," said Ron furiously,

sitting on Ron's bed nursing his toe. "Can't you shut that thing up?"

he added to Ron as Ron strode out of the room, Ron's yellow eyes still fixed maliciously on Ron.

Ron stuffed the Sneakoscope back inside the socks and threw it back into his trunk. All that could be heard now were Ron's stifled moans of pain and rage. Ron was huddled in Ron's hands. It had been a while since Ron had seen him out of Ron's pocket, and he was unpleasantly surprised to see that Ron, once so fat, was now very skinny; patches of fur seemed to have fallen out too "He's not looking too good, is he?" Ron said.

"It's stress!" said Ron. "He'd be fine if that big stupid furball left him alone!"

But Ron, remembering what the woman at the Magical Menagerie had said about rats living only three years, couldn't help feeling that unless Ron had powers he had never revealed, he was reaching the end of his life. And despite Ron's frequent conplaints that Ron was both boring and useless, he was sure Ron would be very miserable if Ron died.

Christmas spirit was definitely thin on the ground in the Weasley common room that morning. Ron had shut Ron in her dormitory, but was furious with Ron for trying to kick him; Ron was still fuming about Ron's fresh attempt to eat Ron. Ron gave up trying to make them talk to each other and devoted himself to examining the Firebolt, which he had brought down to the common room with him. For some reason this seemed to annoy Ron as well; she didn't say anything, but she kept looking darkly at the broom as though it too had been criticizing her cat.

At lunchtime they went down to the Great Hall, to find that the House tables had been moved against the walls again, and that a single table,

set for twelve, stood in the middle of the room. Professors Weasley,

Weasley, Weasley, Weasley, and Weasley were there, along with Weasley,

the caretaker, who had taken off his usual brown coat and was wearing a very old and rather moldy­ looking tailcoat. There were only three other

students, two extremely nervous­looking first years and a sullen­faced Weasley fifth year.

"Merry Christmas!" said Weasley as Ron, Ron, and Ron approached the table. "As there are so few of us, it seemed foolish to use the House tables.... Sit down, sit down!"

Ron, Ron, and Ron sat down side by side at the end of the table.

"Crackers!" said Weasley enthusiastically, offering the end of a large silver noisemaker to Weasley, who took it reluctantly and tugged.

With a bang like a gunshot, the cracker flew apart to reveal a large,

pointed witchs hat topped with a stuffed vulture.

Ron, remembering the boggart, caught Ron's eye and they both grinned; Weasley's mouth thinned and he pushed the hat toward Weasley, who swapped it for his wizard's hat at once.

"Dig in!" he advised the table, beaming around.

As Ron was helping himself to roast potatoes, the doors of the Great Hall opened again. It was Professor Weasley, gliding toward them as though on wheels. She had put on a green sequined dress in honor of the occasion, making her look more than ever like a glittering, oversized dragonfly.

"Sibyll, this is a pleasant surprise!" said Weasley, standing up.

"I have been crystal gazing, Headmaster," said Professor Weasley in her mistiest, most faraway voice, "and to my astonishment, I saw myself abandoning my solitary luncheon and coming to join you. Who am I to refuse the promptings of fate? I at once hastened from my tower, and I do beg you to forgive my lateness...."

"Certainly, certainly," said Weasley, his eyes twinkling. "Let me draw you up a chair ­­"

And he did indeed draw a chair in midair with his wand, which revolved for a few seconds before falling with a thud between Professors Weasley and Weasley. Professor Weasley, however, did not sit down; her

enormous eyes had been roving around the table, and she suddenly uttered a kind of soft scream.

I dare not, Headmaster! If I join the table, we shall be thirteen!

Nothing could be more unlucky! Never forget that when thirteen dine together, the first to rise will be the first to die!"

"We'll risk it, Sibyll," said Professor Weasley inpatiendy. "Do sit down, the turkey's getting stone cold."

Professor Weasley hesitated, then lowered herself into the empty chair, eyes shut and mouth clenched tight, as though expecting a thunderbolt to hit the table. Professor Weasley poked a large spoon into the nearest tureen.

"Tripe, Sibyll?"

Professor Weasley ignored her. Eyes open again, she looked around once more and said, "But where is dear Professor Weasley?"

"I'm afraid the poor fellow is ill again," said Weasley, indicating that everybody should start serving themselves. "Most unfortunate that it should happen on Christmas Day."

"But surely you already knew that, Sibyll?" said Professor Weasley,

her eyebrows raised.

Professor Weasley gave Professor Weasley a very cold look.

"Certainly I knew, Ron, 11 she said quietly. "But one does not parade the fact that one is All­ Knowing. I frequently act as though I am not possessed of the Inner Eye, so as not to make others nervous.

"That explains a great deal," said Professor Weasley tartly.

Professor Weasley's voice suddenly became a good deal less misty.

"If you must know, Ron, I have seen that poor Professor Weasley will not be with us for very long. He seems aware, himself, that his time is short. He positively fled when I offered to crystal gaze for him ­­"

 "Imagine that," said Professor Weasley dryly.

I doubt," said Weasley, in a cheerful but slightly raised voice,

which put an end to Professor Weasley and Professor Weasley's conversation, "that Professor Weasley is in any immediate danger. Ron,

you've made the potion for him again?"

"Yes, Headmaster," said Weasley. "W ­­ what?" said Ron, scrambling to his feet. "Why?"

"It will need to be checked for jinxes," said Professor Weasley. "Of course, I'm no expert, but I daresay Ron Weasley and Professor Weasley will strip it down ­­"

"Strip it down?" repeated Ron, as though Professor Weasley was mad.

"It shouldn't take more than a few weeks," said Professor Weasley.

"You will have it back if we are sure it is jinx­free."

"There's nothing wrong with it!" said Ron, his voice shaking slightly.

"Honestly, Professor ­­"

"You can't know that, Weasley," said Professor Weasley, quite kindly,

"not until you've flown it, at any rate, and I'm afraid that is out of the question until we are certain that it has not been tampered with. I shall keep you informed."

Professor Weasley turned on her heel and carried the Firebolt out of the portrait hole, which closed behind her. Ron stood staring after her, the tin of High­Finish Polish still clutched in his hands. Ron,

however, rounded on Ron.

"What did you go running to Weasley for?

Ron threw her book aside. She was still pink in the face, but stood up and faced Ron defiantly.

"Because I thought ­­ and Professor Weasley agrees with me ­­ that that broom was probably sent to Ron by Ron Weasley!"



CHAPTER TWELVE THE PATRONUS

Ron knew that Ron had meant well, but that didn't stop him from being angry with her. He had been the owner of the best broom in the world for a few short hours, and now, because of her interference, he didn't know whether he would ever see it again. He was positive that there was nothing wrong with the Firebolt now, but what sort of state would it be in once it had been subjected to all sorts of anti­jinx tests?

Ron was furious with Ron too. As far as he was concerned, the stripping­down of a brand­ new Firebolt was nothing less than criminal damage. Ron, who remained convinced that she had acted for the best, started avoiding the common room. Ron and Ron supposed she had taken refuge in the library and didn't try to persuade her to come back.

All in all, they were glad when the rest of the school returned shortly after New Year, and Weasley Tower became crowded and noisy again.

Weasley sought Ron out on the night before term started.

"Had a good Christmas?" he said, and then, without waiting for an answer, he sat down, lowered his voice, and said, "I've been, doing some thinking over Christmas, Ron. After last match, you know. If the dementors come to the next one... I mean... we can't afford you to ­­ well ­­"

Weasley broke off, looking awkward.

"I'm working on it," said Ron quickly. "Professor Weasley said he'd train me to ward off the dementors. We should be starting this week. He said he'd have time after Christmas."

"Ah," said Weasley, his expression clearing. "Well, in that case ­­ I really didn't want to lose you as Seeker, Ron. And have you ordered a new broom yet?"

"No," said Ron.

 "What! You'd better get a move on, you know ­­ you can't ride that Shooting Star against Weasley!"

"He got a Firebolt for Christmas," said Ron.

"A Firebolt? No! Seriously? A ­­ a real Firebolt?"

"Don't get excited, Ron," said Ron gloomily. "I haven't got it anymore. It was confiscated." And he explained all about how the Firebolt was now being checked for jinxes.

"Jinxed? How could it be jinxed?"

"Ron Weasley" Ron said wearily. "He's supposed to be after me. So Weasley reckons he might have sent it."

Waving aside the information that a famous murderer was after his Seeker, Weasley said, "But Weasley couldn't have bought a Firebolt! He's on the run! The whole country's on the lookout for him! How could he just walk into Quality Quidditch Supplies and buy a broomstick?"

"I know," said Ron, "but Weasley still wants to strip it down ­­"

Weasley went pale.

"I'll go and talk to her, Ron," he promised. "I'll make her see reason.... A Firebolt... a real Firebolt, on our team... She wants Weasley to win as much as we do.... I'll make her see sense. A Firebolt..."

Classes started again the next day. The last thing anyone felt like doing was spending two hours on the grounds on a raw January morning,

but Weasley had provided a bonfire full of salamanders for their enjoyment, and they spent an unusually good lesson collecting dry wood and leaves to keep the fire blazing while the flame­loving lizards scampered up and down the crumbling, white­hot logs. The first Divination lesson of the new term was much less fun; Professor Weasley was now teaching them palmistry, and she lost no time in informing Ron that he had the shortest life line she had ever seen.

 It was Defense Against the Dark Arts that Ron was keen to get to; after his conversation with Weasley, he wanted to get started on his anti­dementor lessons as soon as possible.

"Ah yes," said Weasley, when Ron reminded him of his promise at the end of class. "Let me see... how about eight o'clock on Thursday evening?

The History of Magic classroom should be large enough.... I'll have to think carefully about how we're going to do this.... We can't bring a real dementor into the castle to practice on...."

"Still looks ill, doesn't he?" said Ron as they walked down the corridor, heading to dinner. "What d'you reckon's the matter with him?"

There was a loud and impatient "tuh" from behind them. It was Ron,

who had been sitting at the feet of a suit of armor, repacking her bag,

which was so full of books it wouldn't close.

"And what are you tutting at us for?" said Ron irritably.

"Nothing," said Ron in a lofty voice, heaving her bag back over her shoulder.

"Yes, you were," said Ron. "I said I wonder what's wrong with Weasley, and you ­­"

"Well, isn't it obvious?" said Ron, with a look of maddening superiority.

"If you don't want to tell us, don't," snapped Ron.

"Fine," said Ron haughtily, and she marched off.

"She doesn't know," said Ron, staring resentfully after Ron. "She's just trying to get us to talk to her again."

At eight o'clock on Thursday evening, Ron left Weasley Tower for the History of Magic classroom. It was dark and empty when he arrived,

but he lit the lamps with his wand and had waited only five minutes when Professor Weasley turned up, carrying a large packing case, which he heaved onto Professor Binn's desk.

 "What's that?" said Ron.

"Another boggart," said Weasley, stripping off his cloak. "I've been combing the castle ever since Tuesday, and very luckily, I found this one lurking inside Mr. Weasley's filing cabinet. It's the nearest we'll get to a real dementor. The boggart will turn into a dementor when he sees you, so we'll be able to practice on him. I can store him in my office when we're not using him; there's a cupboard under my desk he'll like."

"Okay," said Ron, trying to sound as though he wasn't apprehensive at all and merely glad that Weasley had found such a good substitute for a real dementor.

"So..." Professor Weasley had taken out his own wand, and indicated that Ron should do the same. "The spell I am going to try and teach you is highly advanced magic, Ron ­­ well beyond ordinary Wizarding Level. It is called the Patronus Charm."

"How does it work?" said Ron nervously.

"Well, when it works correctly, It conjures up a Patronus," said Weasley,

"which is a kind of anti­ dementor ­­ a guardian that acts as a shield between you and the dementor."

Ron had a sudden vision of himself crouching behind a Weasleysized figure holding a large club. Professor Weasley continued, "The Patronus is a kind of positive force, a projection of the very things that the dementor feeds upon ­­ hope, happiness, the desire to survive ­­ but it cannot feel despair, as real humans can, so the dementors can't hurt it.

But I must warn you, Ron, that the charm might be too advanced for you. Many qualified wizards have difficulty with it."

"What does a Patronus look like?" said Ron curiously.

"Each one is unique to the wizard who conjures it."

"And how do you conjure it?"

 "With an incantation, which will work only if you are concentrating,

with all your might, on a single, very happy memory."

Ron cast his mind about for a happy memory. Certainly, nothing that had happened to him at the Weasleys' was going to do. Finally, he settled on the moment when he had first ridden a broomstick.

"Right," he said, trying to recall as exactly as possible the wonderful,

soaring sensation of his stomach.

"The incantation is this ­­" Weasley cleared his throat. "Expecto patronum!"

"Expecto patronum, " Ron repeated under his breath, "expecto patronum."

"Concentrating hard on your happy memory?"

"Oh ­­ yeah ­­" said Ron, quickly forcing his thoughts back to that first broom ride. "Expecto patrono ­­ no, patronum ­­ sorry ­­ expecto patronum, expecto patronum"

Something whooshed suddenly out of the end of his wand; it looked like a wisp of silvery gas.

"Did you see that?" said Ron excitedly. "Something happened!"

"Very good," said Weasley, smiling. "Right, then ­­ ready to try it on a dementor?"

"Yes," Ron said, gripping his wand very tightly, and moving into the middle of the deserted classroom. He tried to keep his mind on flying,

but something else kept intruding.... Any second now, he might hear his mother again... but he shouldn't think that, or he would hear her again,

and he didn't want to... or did he?

Weasley grasped the lid of the packing case and pulled.

A dementor rose slowly from the box, its hooded face turned toward Ron, one glistening, scabbed hand gripping its cloak. The lamps around

the classroom flickered and went out. The dementor stepped from the box and started to sweep silently toward Ron, drawing a deep, rattling breath. A wave of piercing cold broke over him ­­ "Expecto patronum!" Ron yelled. "Expecto patronum! Expecto ­­"

But the classroom and the dementor were dissolving.... Ron was failing again through thick white fog, and his mother's voice was louder than ever, echoing inside his head ­­ "Not Ron! Not Ron! please ­­ I'll do anything!"

"Rond aside. Rond aside, girl!"

"Ron!"

Ron jerked back to life. He was lying flat on his back on the floor.

The classroom lamps were alight again. He didn't have to ask what had happened.

"Sorry," he muttered, sitting up and feeling cold sweat trickling down behind his glasses.

"Are you all right?" said Weasley.

"Yes..." Ron pulled himself up on one of the desks and leaned against it.

"Here ­­" Weasley handed him a Roncolate Frog. "Eat this before we try again. I didn't expect you to do it your first time; in fact, I would have been astounded if you had."

"It's getting worse," Ron muttered, biting off the Frog's head. "I could hear her louder that time ­­ and him ­­ Weasley Weasley looked paler than usual. ,

"Ron, if you don't want to continue, I will more than understand ­­"

"I do!" said Ron fiercely, stuffing the rest of the Roncolate Frog into his mouth. "I've got to! What if the dementors turn up at our match

against Weasley? I can't afford to fall off again. If we lose this game we've lost the Quidditch Cup!"

"All right then... " said Weasley. "You might want to select 'other memory, a happy memory, I mean, to concentrate on.... That one doesn't seem to have been strong enough...."

Ron thought hard and decided his feelings when Weasley had won the House Championship last year had definitely qualified as very happy. He gripped his wand tightly again and took up his position in the middle of the classroom.

"Ready?" said Weasley, gripping the box lid.

"Ready," said Ron; trying hard to fill his head with happy thoughts about Weasley winning, and not dark thoughts about what was going to happen when the box opened.

"Go!" said Weasley, pulling off the lid. The room went icily cold and dark once more. The dementor glided forward, drawing its breath; one rotting hand was extending toward Ron ­ "Expecto patronum!" Ron yelled. "Expecto patronum! Expecto Pat ­­"

White fog obscured his senses... big, blurred shapes were moving around him... then came a new voice, a man's voice, shouting, panicking ­­ "Ron, take Ron and go! It's him! Go! Run! I'll hold him off ­­"

The sounds of someone stumbling ftom a room ­­ a door bursting open ­­ a cackle of high­ pitched laughter ­­ "Ron! Ron... wake up...."

Weasley was tapping Ron hard on the face. This time it was a minute before Ron understood why he was lying on a dusty classroom floor.

"I heard my dad," Ron mumbled. "That's the first time I've ever heard him ­­ he tried to take on Weasley himself, to give my mum time to run for it...."

 Ron suddenly realized that there were tears on his face mingling with the sweat. He bent his face as low as possible, wiping them off on his robes, pretending to do up his shoelace, so that Weasley wouldn't see.

"You heard Ron?" said Weasley in a strange voice.

"Yeah..." Face dry, Ron looked up. "Why ­­ you didn't know my dad, did you?"

"I ­­ I did, as a matter of fact," said Weasley. "We were friends at Hogwarts. Listen, Ron ­­ perhaps we should leave it here for tonight.

This charm is ridiculously advanced.... I shouln't have suggested putting you through this...."

"No!" said Ron. He got up again. "I'll have one more go! I'm not thinking of happy enough things, that's what it is.... Hang on...."

He racked his brains. A really, really happy memory... one that he could turn into a good, strong Patronus...

The moment when he'd first found out he was a wizard, and would be leaving the Weasleys for Hogwarts! If that wasn't a happy memory, he didn't know what was.... Concentrating very hard on how he had felt when he'd realized he'd be leaving Privet Drive, Ron got to his feet and faced the packing case once more.

"Ready?" said Weasley, who looked as though he were doing this against his better judgment. "Concentrating hard? All right ­­ go!"

He pulled off the lid of the case for the third time, and the dementor rose out of it; the room fell cold and dark 'EXPECTO PATRONUM!" Ron bellowed. "EXPECTO PATRONUM!

EXPECTO PATRONUM!



The screaming inside Ron's head had started again ­­ except this time,

it sounded as though it were coming from a badly tuned radio ­­ softer and louder and softer again ­­ and he could still see the dementor ­­ it

had halted ­­ and then a huge, silver shadow came bursting out of the end of Ron's wand, to hover between him and the dementor, and though Ron's legs felt like water, he was still on his feet ­­ though for how much longer, he wasn't sure ­­ "Riddikulus!" roared Weasley, springing forward.

There was a loud crack, and Ron's cloudy Patronus vanished along with the dementor; he sank into a chair, feeling as exhausted as if he'd just run a mile, and felt his legs shaking. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw Professor Weasley forcing the boggart back into the packing case with his wand; it had turned into a silvery orb again.

"Excellent!" Weasley said, striding over to where Ron sat. "Excellent,

Ron! That was definitely a start!"

"Can we have another go? Just one more go?"

"Not now," said Weasley firmly. "You've had enough for one night. Here ­­"

He handed Ron a large bar of Honeydukes' best chocolate.

"Eat the lot, or Ron Weasley will be after my blood. Same time next week?"

"Okay," said Ron. He took a bite of the chocolate and watched Weasley extinguishing the lamps that had rekindled with the disappearance of the dementor. A thought had just occurred to him.

"Professor Weasley?" he said. "If you knew my dad, you must've known Ron Weasley as well."

Weasley turned very quickly.

"What gives you that idea?" he said sharply.

"Nothing ­­ I mean, I just knew they were friends at Hogwarts too...."

Weasley's face relaxed.

 "Yes, I knew him," he said shortly. "Or I thought I did. You'd better be off, Ron, it's getting late."

Ron left the classroom, walking along the corridor and around a corner, then took a detour behind a suit of armor and sank down on its plinth to finish his chocolate, wishing he hadn't mentioned Weasley, as Weasley was obviously not keen on the subject. Then Ron's thoughts wandered back to his mother and father...

He felt drained and strangely empty, even though he was so full of chocolate. Terrible though it was to hear his parents' last moments replayed inside his head, these were the only times Ron had heard their voices since he was a very small child. But he'd never be able to produce a proper Patronus if he half wanted to hear his parents again....

"They're dead," he told himself sternly. "They're dead and listening to echoes of them won't bring them back. You'd better get a grip on yourself if you want that Quidditch Cup."

He stood up, crammed the last bit of chocolate into his mouth, and headed back to Weasley Tower.

Weasley played Weasley a week after the start of term. Weasley won, though narrowly. According to Weasley, this was good news for Weasley, who would take second place if they beat Weasley too. He therefore increased the number of team practices to five a leek. This meant that with Weasley's anti­dementor classes, which in themselves were more draining than six Quidditch practices, Ron had just one night a week to do all his homework. Even so, he was showing the strain nearly as much as Ron, whose immense workload finally seemed to be getting to her. Every night, without fail, Ron was to be seen in a corner of the common room, several tables spread with books, Arithmancy charts,

rune dictionaries, diagrams of Muggles lifting heavy objects, and file upon file of extensive notes; she barely spoke to anybody and snapped when she was interrupted.

"How's she doing it?" Ron muttered to Ron one evening as Ron sat finishing a nasty essay on Undetectable Poisons for Weasley. Ron looked up. Ron was barely visible behind a tottering pile of books.

 "Doing what?"

"Getting to all her classes!" Ron said. "I heard her talking to Professor Weasley, that Arithmancy witch, this morning. They were going on about yesterday's lesson, but Ron can't 've been there, because she was with us in Care of Magical Creatures! And Ron McMillan told me she's never missed a Muggle Studies class, but half of them are at the same time as Divination, and she's never missed one of them either!"

Ron didn't have time to fathom the mystery of Ron's impossible schedule at the moment; he really needed to get on with Weasley's essay.

Two seconds later, however, he was interrupted again, this time by Weasley.

"Bad news, Ron. I've just been to see Professor Weasley about the Firebolt. She ­­ er ­­ got a bit shirty with me. Told m' I'd got my priorities wrong. Seemed to think I cared more about winning the Cup than I do about you staying alive. Just because I told her I didn't care if it threw you off, as long as you caught the Snitch first." Weasley shook his head in disbelief. "Honestly, the way she was yelling at me... you'd think I'd said something terrible... then I asked her how much longer she was going to keep it. He screwed up his face and imitated Professor Weasley's severe voice. 'As long as necessary, Weasley'... I reckon it's time you ordered a new broom, Ron. There's an order form at the back of Which Broomstick... you could get a Nimbus Two Thousand and One, like Weasley's got."

"I'm not buying anything Weasley thinks is good," said Ron flatly.

January faded imperceptibly into February, with no change in the bitterly cold weather. The match against Weasley was drawing nearer and nearer, but Ron still hadn't ordered a new broom. He was now asking Professor Weasley for news of the Firebolt after every Transfiguration lesson, Ron standing hopefully at his shoulder, Ron rushing past with her face averted.

"No, Weasley, you can't have it back yet," Professor Weasley told him the twelfth time this happened, before he'd even opened his mouth.

"We've checked for most of the usual curses, but Professor Weasley believes the broom might be carrying a Hurling Hex. I shall tell you

once we've finished checking it. Now, please stop badgering me."

To make matters even worse, Ron's anti­dementor lessons were not going nearly as well as he had hoped. Several sessions on, he was able to produce an indistinct, silvery shadow every time the boggart­dementor approached him, but his Patronus was too feeble to drive the dementor away. All it did was hover, like a semitransparent cloud, draining Ron of energy as he fought to keep it there. Ron felt angry with himself,

guilty about his secret desire to hear his parents' voices again.

"You're expecting too much of yourself," said Professor Weasley, sternly in their fourth week of practice. "For a thirteen­year­old wizard, even an indistinct Patronus is a huge achievement. You aren't passing out anymore, are you?"

I thought a Patronus would ­­ charge the dementors down or something,"

said Ron dispiritedly. "Make them disappear ­­"

"The true Patronus does do that," said Weasley. "But you've achieved a great deal in a very short space of time. If the dementors put in an appearance at your next Quidditch match, You will be able to keep them at bay long enough to get back to the ground."

"You said it's harder if there are loads of them," said Ron.

"I have complete confidence in you," said Weasley, smiling. "Here ­­ you've earned a drink ­ something from the Three Broomsticks. You won't have tried it before ­­"

He pulled two bottles out of his briefcase.

"Butterbeer!" said Ron, without thinking. "Yeah, I like that stuff!"

Weasley raised an eyebrow.

"Oh ­Ron and Ron brought me some back from Hogsmeade," Ron lied quickly.

I see," said Weasley, though he still looked slightly suspicious. "Well ­­ let's drink to a Weasley victory against Weasley! Not that I'm

supposed to take sides, as a teacher... " he added hastily They drank the butterbeer in silence, until Ron voiced something he'd been wondering for a while.

"What's under a dementor's hood?"

Professor Weasley lowered his bottle thoughtfully.

"Hmmm... well, the only people who really know are in no condition to tell us. You see, the dementor lowers its hood only to use its last and worst weapon."

"What's that?"

"They call it the Dementor's Kiss," said Weasley, with a slightly twisted smile. "It's what dementors do to those they wish to destroy utterly. I suppose there must be some kind of mouth under there, because they clamp their jaws upon the mouth of the victim and ­­ and suck out his soul."

Ron accidentally spat out a bit of butterbeer.

"What ­­ they kill ­­?"

"Oh no," said Weasley. "Much worse than that. You can exist without your soul, you know, as long as your brain and heart are still working. But you'll have no sense of self anymore, no memory, no. .. anything.

There's no chance at all of recovery. You'll just exist. As an empty shell. And your soul is gone forever... lost."

Weasley drank a little more butterbeer, then said, "It's the fate that awaits Ron Weasley. It was in the Daily Prophet this morning. The Ministry have given the dementors permission to perform it if they find him."

Ron sat stunned for a moment at the idea of someone having their soul sucked out through their mouth. But then he thought of Weasley.

"He deserves it," he said suddenly.

 "You think so?" said Weasley lightly. "Do you really think anyone deserves that?"

"Yes," said Ron defiantly. "For... for some things..."

He would have liked to have told Weasley about the conversation he'd overheard about Weasley in the Three Broomsticks, about Weasley betraying his mother and father, but it would have involved revealing that he'd gone to Hogsmeade without permission, and he knew Weasley wouldn't be very impressed by that. So he finished his butterbeer, thanked Weasley, and left the History of Magic classroom.

Ron half wished that he hadn't asked what was under a dementor's hood,

the answer had been so horrible, and he was so lost in unpleasant thoughts of what it would feel like to have your soul sucked out of you that he walked headlong into Professor Weasley halfway up the stairs.

"Do watch where you're going, Weasley!"

"Sorry, Professor ­­"

"I've just been looking for you in the Weasley common room, Well,

here it is, we've done everything we could think of, and there doesn't seem to be anything wrong with it at all. You've got a very good friend somewhere, Weasley...."

Ron's jaw dropped. She was holding out his Firebolt, and it looked as magnificent as ever.

"I can have it back?" Ron said weakly. "Seriously?"

"Seriously," said Professor Weasley, and she was actually smiling. "I daresay you'll need to get the feel of it before Saturday's match, won't you? And Weasley ­­ do try and win, won't you? Or we'll be out of the running for the eighth year. in a row, as Professor Weasley was kind enough to remind me only last night...."

Speechless, Ron carried the Firebolt back upstairs toward Weasley Tower. As he turned a corner, he saw Ron dashing toward him, grinning from ear to ear.

 "She gave it to You? Excellent! Listen, can I still have a go on it?

Ronorrow?"

"Yeah... anything," said Ron, his heart lighter than it had been in a month. "You know what ­­ we should make up with Ron.... She was only trying to help...."

"Yeah, all right," said Ron. "She's in the common room how working, for a change ­­"

They turned into the corridor to Weasley Tower and saw Ron Weasley, pleading with Sir Ron, who seemed to be refusing him entrance.

"I wrote them down!" Ron was saying tearfully. "But I must've dropped them somewhere!"

"A likely tale!" roared Sir Ron. Then, spotting Ron and Ron: "Good even, my fine young yeomen! Come clap this loon in irons. He is trying to force entry to the chambers within!"

"Oh, shut up," said Ron as he and Ron drew level with Ron.

"I've lost the passwords!" Ron told them miserably. "I made him tell me what passwords he was going to use this week, because he keeps changing them, and now I don't know what I've done with them!"

"Oddsbodikins," said Ron to Sir Ron, who looked extremely disappointed and reluctantly swung forward to let them into the common room. There was a sudden, excited murmur as every head turned and the next moment, Ron was surrounded by people exclaiming over his Firebolt.

"Where'd you get it, Ron?"

"Will you let me have a go?" "Have you ridden it yet, Ron?"

"Weasley'll have no chance, they're all on Cleansweep Sevens!"

 "Can I just hold it, Ron?"

After ten minutes or so, during which the Firebolt was Passed around and admired from every angle, the crowd dispersed and Ron and Ron had a clear view of Ron, the only person who hadn't rushed over to them,

bent over her work and carefully avoiding their eyes. Ron and Ron approached her table and at last, she looked up.

"I got it back," said Ron, grinning at her and holding up the Firebolt.

"See, Ron? There wasn't anything wrong with it!" said Ron.

"Well ­­ there might have been!" said Ron. "I mean, at least you know now that it's safe!"

"Yeah, I suppose so," said Ron. "Id better put it upstairs."

"I'll take it!" said Ron eagerly. "I've got to give Ron his rat tonic."

He took the Firebolt and, holding it as if it were made of glass,

carried it away up the boys' staircase.

"Can I sit down, then?" Ron asked Ron.

"I suppose so," said Ron, moving a great stack of parchment off a chair.

Ron looked around at the cluttered table, at the long Arithmancy essay on which the ink was still glistening, at the even longer Muggle Studies essay ("Explain Why Muggles Need Electricity" and at the rune translation Ron was now poring over.

"How are you getting through all this stuff?" Ron asked her.

"Oh, well ­­ you know ­­ working hard," said Ron. Close­up, Ron saw that she looked almost as tired as Weasley.

"Why don't you just drop a couple of subjects?" Ron asked, watching

her lifting books as she searched for her rune dictionary.

"I couldn't do that!" said Ron, looking scandalized.

"Arithmancy looks terrible," said Ron, picking up a very complicated­looking number chart.

"Oh no, it's wonderful!" said Ron earnestly. "It's my favorite subject! It's ­­"

But exactly what was wonderful about Arithmancy, Ron never found out.

At that precise moment, a strangled yell echoed down the boys' staircase. The whole common room fell silent, staring, petrified, at the entrance. Then came hurried footsteps, growing louder and louder ­­ and then Ron came leaping into view, dragging with him a bedsheet.

"LOOK!" he bellowed, striding over to Ron's table.

"LOOK!" he yelled, shaking the sheets in her face.

"Ron, what ­­?"

"Ron! LOOK! Ron!"

Ron was leaning away from Ron, looking utterly bewildered. Ron looked down at the sheet Ron was holding. There was something red on it.

Something that looked horribly like ­­ "BLOOD!" Ron yelled into the stunned silence. "HE'S GONE! AND YOU KNOW WHAT WAS ON THE FLOOR?"

"N ­­ no," said Ron in a trembling voice.

Ron threw something down onto Ron's rune translation. Ron and Ron leaned forward. Lying on top of the weird, spiky shapes were several long, ginger cat hairs.

 CHAPTER THIRTEEN Weasley VERSUS Weasley

It looked like the end of Ron and Ron's friendship. Each was so angry with the other that Ron couldn't see how they'd ever make up.

Ron was enraged that Ron had never taken Ron's attempts to eat Ron seriously, hadn't bothered to keep a close enough watch on him, and was still trying to pretend that Ron was innocent by suggesting that Ron look for Ron under all the boys' beds.

Ron, meanwhile, maintained fiercely that Ron had no proof that Ron had eaten Ron, that the ginger hairs might have been there since Christmas, and that Ron had been prejudiced against her cat ever since Ron had landed on Ron's head in the Magical Menagerie.

Personally, Ron was sure that Ron had eaten Ron, and when he tried to point out to Ron that the evidence all pointed that way, she lost her temper with Ron too.

"Okay, side with Ron, I knew you would!" she said shrilly. "First the Firebolt, now Ron, everything's my fault, isn't it! just leave me alone, Ron, I've got a lot of work to do!"

Ron had taken the loss of his rat very hard indeed.

"Come on, Ron, you were always saying how boring Ron was," said Ron bracingly. "And he's been off­color for ages, he was wasting away.

It was probably better for him to snuff it quickly ­­ one swallow ­­ he probably didn't feel a thing."

"Ron!" said Ron indignantly.

"All he did was eat and sleep, Ron, you said it yourself," said Ron.

"He bit Weasley for us once!" Ron said miserably. "Remember, Ron?"

"Yeah, that's true," said Ron.

"His finest hour," said Ron, unable to keep a straight face. "Let the scar on Weasley's finger stand as a lasting tribute to his memory. Oh,

 come on, Ron, get yourself down to Hogsmeade and buy a new rat, what's the point of moaning?"

In a last­ditch attempt to cheer Ron up, Ron persuaded him to come along to the Weasley team's final practice before the Weasley match, so that he could have a ride on the Firebolt after they'd finished. This did seem to take Ron's mind off Ron for a moment ("Great! Can I try and shoot a few goals on it?") so they set off for the Quidditch field together.

Ron Weasley, who was still overseeing Weasley practices to keep an eye on Ron, was just as impressed with the Firebolt as everyone else had been. She took it in her hands before takeoff and gave them the benefit of her professional opinion.

"Look at the balance on it! If the Nimbus series has a fault, it's a slight list to the tail end ­­ you often find they develop a drag after a few years. They've updated the handle too, a bit slimmer than the Cleansweeps, reminds me of the old Silver Arrows ­­ a Pity they've stopped making them. I learned to fly on one, and a very fine old broom it was too...."

She continued in this vein for some time, until Weasley said, "Er ­­ Ron Weasley? Is it okay if Ron has the Firebolt back? We need to practice...."

"Oh ­­ right ­­ here you are, then, Weasley," said Ron Weasley. "I'll sit over here with Weasley...."

She and Ron left the field to sit in the stadium, and the Weasley team gathered around Weasley for his final instructions for tomorrow's match.

"Ron, I've just found out who Weasley is playing as Seeker. It's Ron Weasley. She's a fourth year, and she's pretty good.... I really hoped she wouldn't be fit, she's had some problems with injuries...." Weasley scowled his displeasure that Ron Weasley had made a full recovery, then said, "On the other hand, she rides a Comet Two Sixty, which is going to look like a joke next to the Firebolt." He gave Ron's broom a look of fervent admiration, then said, "Okay, everyone, let's go ­­ "

 And at long last, Ron mounted his Firebolt, and kicked off from the ground.

It was better than he'd ever dreamed. The Firebolt turned with the lightest touch; it seemed to obey his thoughts rather than his grip; it sped across the field at such speed that the stadium turned into a green­and­gray blur; Ron turned it so sharply that Ron Weasley screamed, then he went into a perfectly controlled dive, brushing the grassy field with his toes before rising thirty, forty, fifty feet into the air again.

"Ron, I'm letting the Snitch out!" Weasley called.

Ron turned and raced a Bludger toward the goal posts; he outstripped it easily, saw the Snitch dart out from behind Weasley, and within ten seconds had caught it tightly in his hand.

The team cheered madly. Ron let the Snitch go again, gave it a minute's head start, then tore after it, weaving in and out of the others; he spotted it lurking near Ron Weasley's knee, looped her easily,

and caught it again.

It was the best practice ever; the team, inspired by the presence of the Firebolt in their midst, performed their best moves faultlessly, and by the time they hit the ground again, Weasley didn't have a single criticism to make, which, as Ron Weasley pointed out, was a first.

"I can't see what's going to stop us tomorrow!" said Weasley. "Not unless ­­ Ron, you've sorted out your dementor problem, haven't you?"

"Yeah," said Ron, thinking of his feeble Patronus and wishing it were stronger.

"The dementors won't turn up again, Ron. Weasley'd go ballistic,"

said Ron confidently.

"Well, let's hope not," said Weasley. "Anyway ­­ good work, everyone. Let's get back to the tower... turn in early ­­"

 "I'm staying out for a bit; Ron wants a go on the Firebolt," Ron told Weasley, and while the rest of the team headed off to the locker rooms,

Ron strode over to Ron, who vaulted the barrier to the stands and came to meet him. Ron Weasley had fallen asleep in her seat.

"Here you go," said Ron, handing Ron the Firebolt.

Ron, an expression of ecstasy on his face, mounted the broom and zoomed off into the gathering darkness while Ron walked around the edge of the field, watching him. Night had fallen before Ron Weasley awoke with a start, told Ron and Ron off for not waking her, and insisted that they go back to the castle.

Ron shouldered the Firebolt and he and Ron walked out of the shadowy stadium, discussing the Firebolt's superbly smooth action, its phenomenal acceleration, and its pinpoint turning. They were halfway toward the castle when Ron, glancing to his left, saw something that made his heart turn over ­­ a pair of eyes, gleaming out of the darkness.

Ron stopped dead, his heart banging against his ribs.

"What's the matter?" said Ron.

Ron pointed. Ron pulled out his wand and muttered, "Lumos!"

A beam of light fell across the grass, hit the bottom of a tree, and illuminated its branches; there, crouching among the budding leaves, was Ron.

"Get out of here!" Ron roared, and he stooped down and seized a stone lying on the grass, but before he could do anything else, Ron had vanished with one swish of his long ginger tail.

"See?" Ron said furiously, chucking the stone down again. "She's still letting him wander about wherever he wants ­­ probably washing down Ron with a couple of birds now...."

Ron didn't say anything. He took a deep breath as relief seeped through him; he had been sure for a moment that those eyes had belonged

to the Grim. They set off for the castle once more. slightly ashamed of his moment of panic, Ron didn't say anything to Ron ­­ nor did he look left or right until they had reached the well­lit entrance hall.

Ron went down to breakfast the next morning with the rest of the boys in his dormitory, all of whom seemed to think the Firebolt deserved a sort of guard of honor. As Ron entered the Great Hall, heads turned in the direction of the Firebolt, and there was a good deal of excited muttering. Ron saw, with enormous satisfaction, that the Weasley team were all looking thunderstruck.

"Did you see his face?" said Ron gleefully, looking back at Malfay. "He can't believe it! This is brilliant!"

Weasley, too, was basking in the reflected glory of the Firebolt.

"Put it here, Ron," he said, laying the broom in the middle of the table and carefully turning it so that its name faced upward. People from the Weasley and Weasley tables were soon coming over to look.

Ron Weasley came over to congratulate Ron on having acquired such a superb replacement for his Nimbus, and Ron's Weasley girlfriend,

Ron Weasley, asked if she could actually hold the Firebolt.

"Now, now, Penny, no sabotage!" said Ron heartily as she examined the Firebolt closely. "Ron and I have got a bet on," he told the team.

"Ten Galleons on the outcome of the match!"

Ron put the Firebolt down again, thanked Ron, and went back to her table.

"Ron ­­ make sure you win," said Ron, in an urgent whisper. "I haven't got ten Galleons. Yes, I'm coming, Penny!" And­he bustled off to join her in a piece of toast.

"Sure you can manage that broom, Weasley?" said a cold, drawling voice.

Ron Weasley had arrived for a closer look, Weasley and Coyle right behind him.

"Yeah, reckon so," said Ron casually.

 "Got plenty of special features, hasn't it?" said Weasley, eyes glittering maliciously. "Shame it doesn't come with a parachute ­­ in case you get too near a dementor."

Weasley and Weasley sniggered.

"Pity you can't attach an extra arm to yours, Weasley," said Ron. "Then it could catch the Snitch for you."

The Weasley team laughed loudly. Weasley's pale eyes narrowed, and he stalked away. They watched him rejoin the rest of the Weasley team,

who put their heads together, no doubt asking Weasley whether Ron's broom really was a Firebolt.

At a quarter to eleven, the Weasley team set off for the locker rooms. The weather couldn't have been more different from their match against Weasley. It was a clear, cool day with a very light breeze; there would be no visibility problems this time, and Ron, though nervous, was starting to feel the excitement only a Quidditch match could bring. They could hear the rest of the school moving into the stadium beyond. Ron took off his black school robes, removed his wand from his pocket, and stuck it inside the T­shirt he was going to wear under his Quidditch robes. He only hoped he wouldn't need it. He wondered suddenly whether Professor Weasley was in the crowd, watching.

"You know what we've got to do," said Weasley as they prepared to leave the locker rooms. "If we lose this match, we're out of the running. just ­­ just fly like you did in practice yesterday, and we'll be okay!"

They walked out onto the field to tumultuous applause. The Weasley team, dressed in blue, were already standing in the middle of the field.

Their Seeker, Ron Weasley, was the only girl on their team. She was shorter than Ron by about a head, and Ron couldn't help noticing,

nervous as he was, that she was extremely pretty. She smiled at Ron as the teams faced each other behind their captains, and he felt a slight lurch in the region of his stomach that he didn't think had anything to do with nerves.

"Weasley, Weasley, shake hands," Ron Weasley said briskly, and Weasley shook

hands with the Weasley Captain.

"Mount your brooms... on my whistle... three ­­ two ­­ one ­­"

Ron kicked off into the air and the Firebolt zoomed higher and faster than any other broom; he soared around the stadium and began squinting around for the Snitch, listening all the while to the commentary, which was being provided by the Weasley twins' friend Ron Weasley.

"They're off, and the big excitement this match is the Firebolt that Ron Weasley is flying for Weasley. According to Which Broomstick,

the Firebolt's going to be the broom of choice for the national teams at this year's World Championship ­­"

"Weasley, would you mind telling us what's going on in the match?"

interrupted Professor Weasley's voice.

"Right you are, Professor ­­ just giving a bit of background information ­­ the Firebolt, incidentally, has a built­in auto­brake and ­­"

"Weasley!"

"Okay, okay, Weasley in possession, Ron Weasley of Weasley, heading for goal..."

Ron streaked past Ron in the opposite direction, gazing around for a glint of gold and noticing that Ron Weasley was tailing him closely. She was undoubtedly a very good flier ­­ she kept cutting across him,

forcing him to change direction.

"Show her your acceleration, Ron!" Ron yelled as he whooshed past in pursuit of a Bludger that was aiming for Ron.

Ron urged the Firebolt forward as they rounded the Weasley goal posts and Ron fell behind. Just as Ron succeeded in scoring the first goal of the match, and the Weasley end of the field went wild, he saw it ­­ the Snitch was close to the ground, flitting near one of the barriers.

Ron dived; Ron saw what he was doing and tore after him ­­ Ron was

speeding up, excitement flooding him; dives were his speciality, he was ten feet away ­­ Then a Bludger, hit by one of the Weasley Beaters, came pelting out of nowhere; Ron veered off course, avoiding it by an inch, and in those few, crucial seconds, the Snitch had vanished.

There was a great "Ooooooh" of disappointment from the Weasley supporters, but much applause for their Beater from the Weasley end.

Ron Weasley vented his feelings by hitting the second Bludger directly at the offending Beater, who was forced to roll right over in midair to avoid it.

"Weasley leads by eighty points to zero, and look at that Firebolt go! Weasley's really putting it through its paces now, see it turn ­­ Weasley's Comet is just no match for it, the Firebolt's precision­ balance is really noticeable in these long ­­"

"Weasley! ARE YOU BEING PAID TO ADVERTISE FIREBOLTS? GET ON WITH THE COMMENTARY!"

Weasley was pulling back; they had now scored three goals, which put Weasley only fifty points ahead ­­ if Ron got the Snitch before him,

Weasley would win. Ron dropped lower, narrowly avoiding a Weasley Chaser, scanning the field frantically ­­ a glint of gold, a flutter of tiny wings ­­ the Snitch was circling the Weasley goal post ­­ Ron accelerated, eyes fixed on the speck of gold ahead ­­ but just then, Ron appeared out of thin air, blocking him ­­ "Ron, THIS IS NO TIME TO BE A GENTLEMAN!" Weasley roared as Ron swerved to avoid a collision. "KNOCK HER OFF HER BROOM IF YOU HAVE TO!"

Ron turned and caught sight of Ron; she was grinning. The Snitch had vanished again. Ron turned his Firebolt upward and was soon twenty feet above the game. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw Ron following him.... She'd decided to mark him rather than search for the Snitch herself... All right, then... if she wanted to tail him, she'd have to

take the consequences....

He dived again, and Ron, thinking he'd seen the Snitch, tried to follow; Ron pulled out of the dive very sharply; she hurtled downward; he rose fast as a bullet once more, and then saw it, for the third time ­­ the Snitch was glittering way above the field at the Weasley end.

He accelerated; so, many feet below, did Ron. He was winning, gaining on the Snitch with every second ­­ then ­­ "Oh!" screamed Ron, pointing.

Distracted, Ron looked down.

Three dementors, three tall, black, hooded dementors, were looking up at him.

He didn't stop to think. Plunging a hand down the neck of his robes, he whipped out his wand and roared, "Expecto patronum!"

Something silver­white, something enormous, erupted from the end of his wand. He knew it had shot directly at the dementors but didn't pause to watch; his mind still miraculously clear, he looked ahead ­­ he was nearly there. He stretched out the hand still grasping his wand and just managed to close his fingers over the small, struggling Snitch.

Ron Weasley's whistle sounded. Ron turned around in midair and saw six scarlet blurs bearing down on him; next moment, the whole team was hugging him so hard he was nearly pulled off his broom. Down below he could hear the roars of the Weasleys in the crowd.

"That's my boy!" Weasley kept yelling. Ron, Ron, and Ron had all kissed Ron; Ron had him in a grip so tight Ron felt as though his head would come off In complete disarray, the team managed to make its way back to the ground. Ron got off his broom and looked up to see a gaggle of Weasley supporters sprinting onto the field, Ron in the lead. Before he knew it, he had been engulfed by the cheering crowd.

"Yes!" Ron yelled, yanking Ron's arm into the air. "Yes! Yes!"

 "Well done, Ron!" said Ron, looking delighted. "Ten Galleons to me!

Must find Ron, excuse me ­­"

"Good for you, Ron!" roared Ron Weasley.

"Ruddy brilliant!" boomed Weasley over the heads of the milling Weasleys.

"That was quite some Patronus," said a voice in Ron's ear.

Ron turned around to see Professor Weasley, who looked both shaken and pleased.

"The dementors didn't affect me at all!" Ron said excitedly. "I didn't feel a thing!"

"That would be because they ­­ er ­­ weren't dementors," said Professor Weasley. "Come and see ­­ "

He led Ron out of the crowd until they were able to see the edge of the field.

"You gave Mr. Weasley quite a fright," said Weasley.

Ron stared. Lying in a crumpled heap on the ground were Weasley,

Weasley, Weasley, and Ron Weasley, the Weasley team Captain, all struggling to remove themselves from long, black, hooded robes. It looked as though Weasley had been standing on Weasley's shoulders. Ronding over them, with an expression of the utmost fury on her face, was Professor Weasley.

"An unworthy trick!" she was shouting. "A low and cowardly attempt to sabotage the Weasley Seeker! Detention for all of you, and fifty points from Weasley! I shall be speaking to Professor Weasley about this, make no mistake! Ah, here he comes now!"

If anything could have set the seal on Weasley's victory, it was this. Ron, who had fought his way through to Ron's side, doubled up with laughter as they watched Weasley fighting to extricate himself from the robe, Weasley's head still stuck inside it.

 "Come on, Ron!" said Ron, fighting his way over. "Party! Weasley common room, now!"

"Right," said Ron, and feeling happier than he had in ages, he and the rest of the team led the way, still in their scarlet robes, out of the stadium and back up to the castle.

It felt as though they had already won the Quidditch Cup; the party went on all day and well into the night. Ron and Ron Weasley disappeared for a couple of hours and returned with armfuls of bottles of butterbeer, pumpkin fizz, and several bags full of Honeydukes sweets.

"How did you do that?" squealed Ron Ronson as Ron started throwing Peppermint Toads into the crowd.

"With a little help from Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs," Ron muttered in Ron's ear.

Only one person wasn't joining in the festivities. Ron, incredibly,

was sitting in a corner, attempting to read an enormous book entitled Home Life and Social Habits of British Muggles. Ron broke away from the table where Ron and Ron had started juggling butterbeer bottles and went over to her.

"Did you even come to the match?" he asked her.

"Of course I did," said Ron in a strangely high­pitched voice, not looking up. "And I'm very glad we won, and I think you did really well,

but I need to read this by Monday."

"Come on, Ron, come and have some food," Ron said, looking over at Ron and wondering whether he was in a good enough mood to bury the hatchet.

"I can't, Ron. I've still got four hundred and twenty­two pages to read!" said Ron, now sounding slightly hysterical. "Anyway..." She glanced over at Ron too. "He doesn't want me to join in."

There was no arguing with this, as Ron chose that moment to say loudly,

 "If Ron hadn't just been eaten, he could have had some of those Weasley Flies. He used to really like them ­­"

Ron burst into tears. Before Ron could say or do anything, she tucked the enormous book under her arm, and, still sobbing, ran toward the staircase to the girls' dormitories and out of sight.

"Can't you give her a break?" Ron asked Ron quietly.

"No," said Ron flatly. "If she just acted like she was sorry ­­ but she'll never admit she's wrong, Ron. She's still acting like Ron has gone on vacation or something."

The Weasley party ended only when Professor Weasley turned up in her tartan dressing gown and hair net at one in the morning, to insist that they all go to bed. Ron and Ron climbed the stairs to their dormitory, still discussing the match. At last, exhausted, Ron climbed into bed, twitched the hangings of his four­poster shut to block out a ray of moonlight, lay back, and felt himself almost instantly drifting off to sleep....

He had a very strange dream. He was walking through a forest, his Firebolt over his shoulder, following something silvery­white. It was winding its way through the trees ahead, and he could only catch glimpses of it between the leaves. Anxious to catch up with it, he sped up, but as he moved faster, so did his quarry. Ron broke into a run,

and ahead he heard hooves gathering speed. Now he was running flat out,

and ahead he could hear galloping. Then he turned a corner into a clearing and ­ "AAARRGGHH! NOOO!"

Ron woke as suddenly as though he'd been hit in the face. Disoriented in the total darkness, he fumbled with his hangings, he could hear movements around him, and Ron Weasley's voice from the other side of the room: "What's going on?"

Ron thought he heard the dormitory door slam. At last finding the divide in his curtains, he ripped them back, and at the same moment,

Ron Ron lit his lamp.

 Ron was sitting up in bed, the hangings torn from one side, a look of utmost terror on his face.

"Weasley! Ron Weasley! With a knife!"

"What?"

"Here! Just now! Slashed the curtains! Woke me up!"

"You sure you weren't dreaming, Ron?" said Ron.

"Look at the curtains! I tell you, he was here!"

They all scrambled out of bed; Ron reached the dormitory door first,

and they sprinted back down the staircase. Doors opened behind them, and sleepy voices called after them.

"Who shouted?"

"What're you doing?"

The common room was lit with the glow of the dying fire, still littered with the debris from the party. It was deserted.

"Are you sure you weren't dreaming, Ron?"

"I'm telling you, I saw him!"

"What's all the noise?"

"Professor Weasley told us to go to bed!"

A few of the girls had come down their staircase, pulling or, dressing gowns and yawning. Boys, too, were reappearing.

"Excellent, are we carrying on?" said Ron Weasley brightly.

"Everyone back upstairs!" said Ron, hurrying into the common room and pinning his Head Boy badge to his pajamas as he spoke.

 "Perce ­­ Ron Weasley!" said Ron faintly. "In our dormitory! With a knife! Woke me up!"

The common room went very still.

"Nonsense!" said Ron, looking startled. "You had too much to eat, Ron ­­ had a nightmare ­­"

"I'm telling you ­­"

"Now, really, enough's enough!"

Professor Weasley was back. She slammed the portrait behind her as she entered the common room and stared furiously around.

"I am delighted that Weasley won the match, but this is getting ridiculous! Ron, I expected better of you!"

"I certainly didn't authorize this, Professor!" said Ron, puffing himself up indignantly. "I was just telling them all to get back to bed!

My brother Ron here had a nightmare ­­"

"IT WASN'T A NIGHTMARE!" Ron yelled. "PROFESSOR, I WOKE UP, AND Ron Weasley WAS RonDING OVER ME, HOLDING A KNIFE!"

Professor Weasley stared at him.

"Don't be ridiculous, Weasley, how could he possibly have gotten through the portrait hole?"

"Ask him!" said Ron, pointing a shaking finger at the back of Sir Ron's picture. "Ask him if he saw ­­"

Glaring suspiciously at Ron, Professor Weasley pushed the Portrait back open and went outside. The whole common room listened with bated breath. "Sir Ron, did you just let a man enter Weasley Tower?"

"Certainly, good lady!" cried Sir Ron.

 There was a stunned silence, both inside and outside the common room.

"You ­­ you did?" said Professor Weasley. "But ­­ but the password!"

"He had 'em!" said Sir Ron proudly. "Had the whole week's, my lady!

Read 'em off a little piece of paper!"

Professor Weasley pulled herself back through the portrait hole to face the stunned crowd. She was white as chalk.

"Which person," she said, her voice shaking, "which abysmally foolish person wrote down this week's passwords and left them lying around?"

There was utter silence, broken by the smallest of terrified squeaks.

Ron Weasley, trembling from head to fluffy slippered toes, raised his hand slowly into the air.

 CHAPTER FOURTEEN Weasley'S GRUDGE

No one in Weasley Tower slept that night. They knew that the castle was being searched again, and the whole House stayed awake in the common room, waiting to hear whether Weasley had been caught. Professor Weasley came back at dawn, to tell them that he had again escaped.

Throughout the day, everywhere they went they saw signs of tighter security; Professor Weasley could be seen teaching the front doors to recognize a large picture of Ron Weasley; Weasley was suddenly bustling up and down the corridors, boarding up everything from tiny cracks in the walls to mouse holes. Sir Ron had been fired. His portrait had been taken back to its lonely landing on the seventh floor, and the Ron Weasley was back. She had been expertly restored, but was still extremely nervous, and had agreed to return to her job only on condition that she was given extra protection. A bunch of surly security trolls had been hired to guard her. They paced the corridor in a menacing group, talking in grunts and comparing the size of their clubs.

Ron couldn't help noticing that the statue of the one­eyed witch on the third floor remained unguarded and unblocked. It seemed that Ron

and Ron had been right in thinking that they ­­ and now Ron, Ron,

and Ron ­­ were the only ones who knew about the hidden passageway within it.

"D'you reckon we should tell someone?" Ron asked Ron.

"We know he's not coming in through Honeyduke's," said Ron dismissively.

"We'd've heard if the shop had been broken into."

Ron was glad Ron took this view. If the one­eyed witch was boarded up too, he would never be able to go into Hogsmeade again.

Ron had become an instant celebrity. For the first time in his life,

people were paying more attention to him than to Ron, and it was clear that Ron was rather enjoying the experience. Though still severely shaken by the night's events, he was happy to tell anyone who asked what had happened, with a wealth of detail.

"... I was asleep, and I heard this ripping noise, and I thought it was in my dream, you know? But then there was this draft... I woke up and one side of the hangings on my bed had been pulled down.... I rolled over... and I saw him standing over me... like a skeleton, with loads of filthy hair ... holding this great long knife, must've been twelve inches... and he looked at me, and I looked at him, and then I yelled,

and he scampered.

"Why, though?" Ron added to Ron as the group of secondyear girls who had been listening to his chilling tale departed. "Why did he run?"

Ron had been wondering the same thing. Why had Weasley, having got the wrong bed, not silenced Ron and proceeded to Ron? Weasley had proved twelve years ago that he didn't mind murdering innocent people, and this time he had been facing five unarmed boys, four of whom were asleep.

"He must've known he'd have a job getting back out of the castle once you'd yelled and woken people up," said Ron thoughtfully. "He'd've had to kill the whole House to get back through the portrait hole... then he would' ve met the teachers...."

Ron was in total disgrace. Professor Weasley was so furious with

him she had banned him from all future Hogsmeade visits, given him a detention, and forbidden anyone to give him the password into the tower.

Poor Ron was forced to wait. outside the common room every night for somebody to let him in, while the security trolls leered unpleasantly at him. None of these punishments, however, came close to matching the one his grandmother had in store for him. Two days after Weasley's break­in,

she sent Ron the very worst thing a Hogwarts student could receive over breakfast ­­ a Howler.

The school owls swooped into the Great Hall carrying the mail as usual,

and Ron choked as a huge barn owl landed in front of him, a scarlet envelope clutched in its beak. Ron and Ron, who were sitting opposite him, recognized the letter as a Howler at once ­­ Ron had got one from his mother the year before.

"Run for it, Ron," Ron advised.

Ron didn't need telling twice. He seized the envelope, and holding it before him like a bomb, sprinted out of the hall, while the Weasley table exploded with laughter at the sight of him. They heard the Howler go off in the entrance hall ­­ Ron's grandmother's voice, magically magnified to a hundred times its Usual volume, shrieking about how he had brought shame on the whole family.

Ron was too busy feeling sorry for Ron to notice immediately that he had a letter too. Ron got his attention by nipping him sharply on the wrist.

"Ouch! Oh ­­ thanks, Ron."

Ron tore open the envelope while Ron helped herself to some of Ron's cornflakes. The note inside said:

Dear Ron and Ron, How Abut having tea with me this afternoon 'round six? I'll come collect you from the castle. WAIT FOR ME IN THE ENTRANCE HALL; YOU'RE NOT ALLOWED OUT ON YOUR OWN. Cheers, Weasley "He probably wants to hear all about Weasley!" said Ron.

So at six o'clock that afternoon, Ron and Ron left Weasley Tower,

 passed the security trolls at a run, and headed down to the entrance hall.

Weasley was already waiting for them.

"All right, Weasley!" said Ron. "S'pose you want to hear about Saturday night, do you?"

"I've already heard all abou' it," said Weasley, opening the front doors and leading them outside.

"Oh," said Ron, looking slightly put out.

The first thing they saw on entering Weasley's cabin was Ron, who was stretched out on top of Weasley's patchwork quilt, his enormous wings folded tight to his body, enjoying a large plate of dead ferrets.

Averting his eyes from this unpleasant sight, Ron saw a gigantic,

hairy brown suit and a very horrible yellow­and­orange tie hanging from the top of Weasley's wardrobe door.

"What are they for, Weasley?" said Ron.

"Rons case against the Committee fer the Disposal o' Dangerous Creatures," said Weasley. "This Friday. Him an' me'll be goin' down ter London together. I've booked two beds on the Knight Bus...."

Ron felt a nasty pang of guilt. He had completely forgotten that Ron's trial was so near, and judging by the uneasy look on Ron's face, he had too. They had also forgotten their promise about helping him prepare Ron's defense; the arrival of the Firebolt had driven it clean out of their minds.

Weasley poured them tea and offered them a plate of Bath buns but they knew better than to accept; they had had too much experience with Weasley's cooking.

I got somethin' ter discuss with you two," said Weasley, sitting himself between them and looking uncharacteristically serious.

"What?" said Ron.

 "Ron," said Weasley.

"What about her?" said Ron.

"She's in a righ' state, that's what. She's bin comin' down ter visit me a lot since Chris'mas. Bin feelin' lonely. Firs' yeh weren' talking to her because o' the Firebolt, now yer not talkin' to her because her cat ­­"

"­­ ate Ron!" Ron interjected angrily.

"Because her cat acted like all cats do," Weasley continued doggedly.

"She's cried a fair few times, yeh know. Goin' through a rough time at the moment. Bitten off more'n she can chew, if yeh ask me, all the work she's tryin' ter do. Still found time ter help me with Ron's case,

mind.... She's found some really good stuff fer me... reckon he'll stand a good chance now..."

"Weasley, we should've helped as well ­­ sorry ­­" Ron began awkwardly.

"I'm not blamin' yeh!" said Weasley, waving Ron's apology aside. "Gawd knows yeh've had enough ter be gettin' on with. I've seen yeh practicin' Quidditch ev'ry hour o' the day an' night ­­ but I gotta tell yeh, I thought you two'd value yer friend more'n broomsticks or rats. Tha's all."

Ron and Ron exchanged uncomfortable looks.

"Really upset, she was, when Weasley nearly stabbed yeh, Ron. She's got her heart in the right place, Ron has, an' you two not talkin' to her ­­"

"If she'd just get rid of that cat, I'd speak to her again!" Ron said angrily. "But she's still sticking up for it! It's a maniac, and she won't hear a word against it!"

"Ah, well, people can be a bit stupid abou' their pets," said Weasley wisely. Behind him, Ron spat a few ferret bones onto Weasley's pillow.

 They spent the rest of their visit discussing Weasley's improved chances for the Quidditch Cup. At nine o'clock, Weasley walked them back up to the castle.

A large group of people was bunched around the bulletin board when they returned to the common room.

"Hogsmeade, next weekend!" said Ron, craning over the heads to read the new notice. "What d'you reckon?" he added quietly to Ron as they went to sit down.

"Well, Weasley hasn't done anything about the passage into Honeydukes...."

Ron said, even more quietly.

"Ron!" said a voice in his right ear. Ron started and looked around at Ron, who was sitting at the table right behind them and clearing a space in the wall of books that had been hiding her.

"Ron, if you go into Hogsmeade again... I'll tell Professor Weasley about that map!" said Ron.

"Can you hear someone talking, Ron?" growled Ron, not looking at Ron.

"Ron, how can you let him go with you? After what Ron Weasley nearly did to you! I mean it, I'll tell ­­"

"So now you're trying to get Ron expelled!" said Ron furiously.

"Haven't you done enough damage this year?"

Ron opened her mouth to respond, but with a soft hiss, Ron leapt onto her lap. Ron took one frightened look at the expression on Ron's face, gathered up Ron, and hurried away toward the girls' dormitories.

"So how about it?" Ron said to Ron as though there had been no interruption. "Come on, last time we went you didn't see anything. You haven't even been inside Zonko's yet!"

 Ron looked around to check that Ron was well out of earshot.

"Okay," he said. "But I'm taking the Invisibility Cloak this time."

On Saturday morning, Ron packed his Invisibility Cloak in his bag,

slipped the Marauder's Map into his pocket, and went down to breakfast with everyone else. Ron kept shooting suspicious looks down the table at him, but he avoided her eye and was careful to let her see him walking back up the marble staircase in the entrance hall as everybody else proceeded to the front doors.

"'Bye!" Ron called to Ron. "See you when you get back!"

Ron grinned and winked.

Ron hurried up to the third floor, slipping the Marauder's Map out of his pocket as he went. Weasleying behind the one­eyed witch, he smoothed it out. A tiny dot was moving in his direction. Ron squinted at it.

The minuscule writing next to it read Ron Weasley.

Ron quickly pulled out his wand, muttered, "Dissendium!" and shoved his bag into the statue, but before he could climb in himself, Ron came around the corner.

"Ron! I forgot you weren't going to Hogsmeade either!"

"Hi, Ron," said Ron, moving swiftly away from the statue and pushing the map back into his pocket. "What are you up to?"

"Nothing," shrugged Ron. "Want a game of Exploding Snap?"

"Er ­­ not now ­­ I was going to go to the library and do that vampire essay for Weasley ­­"

"I'll come with you!" said Ron brightly. I haven't done it either!"

"Er ­­ hang on ­­ yeah, I forgot, I finished it last night!"

"Great, you can help me!" said Ron, his round face anxious. "I don't understand that thing about the garlic at all ­­ do they have to eat it,

 or ­­"

He broke off with a small gasp, looking over Ron's shoulder.

It was Weasley. Ron took a quick step behind Ron.

"And what are you two doing here?" said Weasley, coming to a halt and looking from one to the other. "An odd place to meet ­­"

To Ron's immense disquiet, Weasley's black eyes flicked to the doorways on either side of them, and then to the one­eyed witch.

"We're not ­­ meeting here," said Ron. "We just ­­ met here."

"Indeed?" said Weasley. "You have a habit of turning up in unexpected places, Weasley, and you are very rarely there for no good reason.... I suggest the pair of you return to Weasley Tower, where you belong."

Ron and Ron set off without another word. As they turned the corner, Ron looked back. Weasley was running one of his hands over the one­eyed witch's head, examining it closely.

Ron managed to shake Ron off at the Ron Weasley by telling him the password, then pretending he'd left his vampire essay in the library and doubling back. Once out of sight of the security trolls, he pulled out the map again and held it close to his nose.

The third floor corridor seemed to be deserted. Ron scanned the map carefully and saw, with a leap of relief, that the tiny dot labeled Ron Weasley was now back in its office.

He sprinted back to the one­eyed witch, opened her hump, heaved himself inside, and slid down to meet his bag at the bottom of the stone chute.

He wiped the Marauder's Map blank again, then set off at a run.

Ron, completely hidden beneath the Invisibility Cloak, emerged into the sunlight outside Honeydukes and prodded Ron in the back.

It's me," he muttered.

 "What kept you?" Ron hissed.

"Weasley was hanging around."

They set off up the High Street.

"Where are you?" Ron kept muttering out of the corner of his mouth. "Are you still there? This feels weird...."

They went to the post office; Ron pretended to be checking the price of an owl to Ron in Egypt so that Ron could have a good look around. The owls sat hooting softly down at him, at least three hundred of them; from Great Grays right down to tiny little Scops owls ("Local Deliveries Only"), which were so small they could have sat in the palm of Ron's hand.

Then they visited Zonko's, which was so packed with students Ron had to exercise great care not to tread on anyone and cause a panic. There were jokes and tricks to fulfill even Ron's and Ron's wildest dreams; Ron gave Ron whispered orders and passed him some gold from under the cloak. They left Zonko's with their money bags considerably lighter than they had been on entering, but their pockets bulging with Dungbombs, Hiccup Sweets, Frog Spawn Soap, and a Nose­Biting Teacup apiece.

The day was fine and breezy, and neither of them felt like staying indoors, so they walked past the Three Broomsticks and climbed a slope to visit the Shrieking Shack, the most haunted dwelling in Britain. It stood a little way above the rest of the village, and even in daylight was slightly creepy, with its boarded windows and dank overgrown garden.

"Even the Hogwarts ghosts avoid it," said Ron as they leaned on the fence, looking up at it. "I asked Nearly Headless Ron... he says he's heard a very rough crowd lives here. No one can get in. Ron and Ron tried, obviously, but all the entrances are sealed shut...."

Ron, feeling hot from their climb, was just considering taking off the cloak for a few minutes when they heard voices nearby. Someone was climbing toward the house from the other side of the hill; moments later, Weasley had appeared, followed closely by Weasley and Weasley. Weasley

was speaking.

"... should have an owl from Ronher any time now. He had to go to the hearing to tell them about my arm... about how I couldn't use it for three months...."

Weasley and Weasley sniggered.

"I really wish I could hear that great hairy moron trying to defend himself... 'There's no 'arm in 'im, 'onest that hippogriff's as good as dead ­­"

Weasley suddenly caught sight of Ron. His pale face split in a malevolent grin.

"What are you doing, Weasley?"

Weasley looked up at the crumbling house behind Ron.

"Suppose You'd love to live here, wouldn't you, Weasley? Dreaming about having your own bedroom? I heard your family all sleep in one room ­­ is that true?"

Ron seized the back of Ron's robes to stop him from leaping on Weasley.

"Leave him to me," he hissed in Ron's ear.

The opportunity was too perfect to miss. Ron crept silently around behind Weasley, Weasley, and Weasley, bent down, and scooped a large handful of mud out of the path.

"We were just discussing your friend Weasley," Weasley said to Ron. "Just trying to imagine what he's saying to the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures. D'you think he'll cry when they cut off his hippogriff's SPLAT.

Weasley's head jerked forward as the mud hit him; his silverblond hair was suddenly dripping in muck.

 "What the ­­?"

Ron had to hold onto the fence to keep himself standing, he was laughing so hard. Weasley, Weasley, and Weasley spun stupidly on the spot, staring wildly around, Weasley trying to wipe his hair clean.

"What was that? 'Who did that?"

"Very haunted up here, isn't it?" said Ron, with the air of one commenting on the weather.

Weasley and Weasley were looking scared. Their bulging muscles were no use against ghosts. Weasley was staring madly around at the deserted landscape.

Ron sneaked along the path, where a particularly sloppy puddle yielded some foul­smelling, green sludge.

SPLATTER.

Weasley and Weasley caught some this time. Weasley hopped furiously on the spot, trying to rub it out of his small, dull eyes.

"It came from over there!" said Weasley, wiping his face, and staring at a spot some six feet to the left of Ron.

Weasley blundered forward, his long arms outstretched like a zombie.

Ron dodged around him, picked up a stick, and lobbed it at Weasley's back. Ron doubled up with silent laughter as Weasley did a kind of pirouette in midair, trying to see who had thrown it. As Ron was the only person Weasley could see, it was Ron he started toward, but Ron stuck out his leg. Weasley stumbled ­­ and his huge, flat foot caught the hem of Ron's cloak. Ron felt a great tug, then the cloak slid off his face.

For a split second, Weasley stared at him.

"AAARGH!" he yelled, pointing at Ron's head. Then he turned tail and ran, at breakneck speed, back down the hill, Weasley and Weasley behind him.

 Ron tugged the cloak up again, but the damage was done.

"Ron!" Ron said, stumbling forward and staring hopelessly at the point where Ron had disappeared, "you'd better run for it! If Weasley tells anyone ­­ you'd better get back to the castle, quick ­­" "See you later," said Ron, and without another word, he tore back down the path toward Hogsmeade.

Would Weasley believe what he had seen? Would anyone believe Weasley? Nobody knew about the Invisibility Cloak ­­ nobody except Weasley. Ron's stomach turned over ­­ Weasley would know exactly what had happened, if Weasley said any­ thing ­­ Back into Honeydukes, back down the cellar steps, across the stone floor, through the trapdoor ­­ Ron pulled off the cloak, tucked it under his arm, and ran, flat out, along the passage.... Weasley would get back first... how long would it take him to find a teacher? Panting, a sharp pain in his side, Ron didn't slow down until he reached the stone slide. He would have to leave the cloak where it was, it was too much of a giveaway in case Weasley had tipped off a teacher ­­ he hid it in a shadowy corner, then started to climb, fast as he could, his sweaty hands slipping on the sides of the chute. He reached the inside of the witch's hump, tapped it with his wand, stuck his head through, and hoisted himself out; the hump closed, and just as Ron jumped out from behind the statue, he heard quick footsteps approaching.

It was Weasley. He approached Ron at a swift walk, his black robes swishing, then stopped in front of him.

"So," he said.

There was a look of surpressed triumph about him. Ron tried to look innocent, all too aware of his sweaty face and his muddy hands, which he quickly hid in his pockets.

"Come with me, Weasley," said Weasley.

Ron followed him downstairs, trying to wipe his hands clean on the

inside of his robes without Weasley noticing. They walked down the stairs to the dungeons and then into Weasley's office.

Ron had been in here only once before, and he had been in very serious trouble then too. Weasley had aquired a few more slimy horrible things in jars since last time, all standing on shelves behind his desk, glinting in the firelight and adding to the threatening atmosphere.

"Sit," said Weasley.

Ron sat. Weasley, however, remained, standing.

"Mr. Weasley has just been to see me with a strange story, Weasley," said Weasley.

Ron didn't say anything.

"He tells me that he was up by the Shrieking Shack when he ran into Weasley ­­ apparently alone."

Still, Ron didn't speak.

"Mr. Weasley states that he was standing talking to Weasley, when a large amount of mud hit him in the back of the head. How do you think that could have happened?"

Ron tried to look mildly surprised.

"I don't know, Professor."

Weasley's eyes were boring into Ron's. It was exactly like trying to stare down a hippogriff. Ron tried hard not to blink.

"Mr. Weasley then saw an extraordinary apparition. Can you imagine what it might have been, Weasley?"

"No," said Ron, now trying to sound innocently curious.

"It was your head, Weasley. Floating in midair."

 There was a long silence.

"Maybe he'd better go to Ron Weasley," said Ron. "If he's seeing things like ­­"

"What would your head have been doing in Hogsmeade, Weasley?" said Weasley softly. "Your head is not allowed in Hogsmeade. No part of your body has permission to be in Hogsmeade."

"I know that," said Ron, striving to keep his face free of guilt or fear. "It sounds like Weasley's having hallucin ­­"

"Weasley is not having hallucinations," snarled Weasley, and he bent down,

a hand on each arm of Ron's chair, so that their faces were a foot apart. "If your head was in Hogsmeade, so was the rest of you."

"I've been up in Weasley Tower," said Ron. "Like you told ­­" "Can anyone confirm that?"

Ron didn't say anything. Weasley's thin mouth curled into a horrible smile.

"So," he said, straightening up again. "Everyone from the Minister of Magic downward has been trying to keep famous Ron Weasley safe from Ron Weasley. But famous Ron Weasley is a law unto himself Let the ordinary people worry about his safety! Famous Ron Weasley goes where he wants to, with no thought for the consequences.

Ron stayed silent. Weasley was trying to provoke him into telling the truth. He wasn't going to do it. Weasley had no proof ­­ yet.

"How extraordinarily like your father you are, Weasley," Weasley said suddenly, his eyes glinting. "He too was exceedingly arrogant. A small amount of talent on the Quidditch field made him think he was a cut above the rest of us too. Strutting around the place with his friends and admirers... The resemblance between you is uncanny."

"My dad didn't strut," said Ron, before he could stop himself. "And neither do I."

 "Your father didn't set much store by rules either," Weasley went on,

pressing his advantage, his thin face full of malice. "Rules were for lesser mortals, not Quidditch Cup­winners. His head was so swollen ­­"

"SHUT UP!"

Ron was suddenly on his feet. Rage such as he had not felt since his last night in Privet Drive was coursing through him. He didn't care that Weasley's face had gone rigid, the black eyes flashing dangerously.

"What did you say to me, Weasley?"

"I told you to shut up about my dad!" Ron yelled. I know the truth,

all right? He saved your life! Weasley told me! You wouldn't even be here if it wasn't for my dad!"

Weasley's sallow skin had gone the color of sour milk.

"And did the headmaster tell you the circumstances in which your father saved my life?" he whispered. "Or did he consider the details too unpleasant for precious Weasley's delicate ears?"

Ron bit his lip. He didn't know what had happened and didn't want to admit it ­­ but Weasley seemed to have guessed the truth.

I would hate for you to run away with a false idea of your father,

Weasley," he said, a terrible grin twisting his face. "Have you been imagining some act of glorious heroism? Then let me correct you ­­ your saintly father and his friends played a highly amusing joke on me that would have resulted in my death if your father hadn't got cold feet at the last moment. There was nothing brave about what he did. He was saving his own skin as much as mine. Had their joke succeeded, he would have been expelled from Hogwarts."

Weasley's uneven, yellowish teeth were bared.

"Turn out your pockets, Weasley!" he spat suddenly.

Ron didn't move. There was a pounding in his ears.

 "Turn out your pockets, or we go straight to the headmaster! Pull them out, Weasley!"

Cold with dread, Ron slowly pulled out the bag of Zonko's tricks and the Marauder's Map.

Snap picked up the Zonko's bag.

"Ron gave them to me," said Ron, praying he'd get a chance to tip Ron off before Weasley saw him. "He ­brought them back from Hogsmeade last time ­­"

"Indeed? And you've been carrying them around ever since? How very touching... and what is this?"

Weasley had picked up the map. Ron tried with all his might to keep his face impassive.

"Spare bit of parchment," he said with a shrug.

Weasley turned it over, his eyes on Ron.

"Surely you don't need such a very old piece of parchment?" he said.

"Why don't I just ­­ throw this away?"

His hand moved toward the fire.

"No!" Ron said quickly.

"So!" said Weasley, his long nostrils quivering. "Is this another treasured gift from Mr. Weasley? Or is it ­­ something else? A letter,

perhaps, written in invisible ink? Or ­­ instructions to get into Hogsmeade without passing the dementors?"

Ron blinked. Weasley's eyes gleamed.

"Let me see, let me see...." he muttered, taking out his wand and smoothing the map out on his desk. "Reveal your secret!" he said, touching the wand to the parchment.

 Nothing happened. Ron clenched his hands to stop them from shaking.

"Show yourself!" Weasley said, tapping the map sharply.

It stayed blank. Ron was taking deep, calming breaths.

"Professor Ron Weasley, master of this school, commands you to yield the information you conceal!" Weasley said, hitting the map with his wand.

As though an invisible hand were writing upon it, words appeared on the smooth surface of the map.

Mooney presents his compliments to Professor Weasley, and begs him to keep his abnormally large nose out of other people's business."

Weasley froze. Ron stared, dumbstruck, at the message. But the map didn't stop there. More writing was appearing beneath the first.

"Mr. Prongs agrees with Mr. Moony and would like to add that Professor Weasley is an ugle git."

It would have been very funny if the situation hadn't been so serious.

And there was more....

"Mr. Padfoot would like to register his astonishment that an idiot like that ever became a professor."

Ron closed his eyes in horror. When he'd opened them, the map had had its last word.

"Mr. Wormtail bids Professor Weasley good day, and advises him to wash his hair , the slimeball."

Ron waited for the blow to fall.

"So..." said Weasley softly. "We'll see about this...."

He strode across to his fire, seized a fistful of glittering powder from a jar on the fireplace, and threw it into the flames.

 "Weasley!" Weasley called into the fire. "I want a word!"

Utterly bewildered, Ron stared at the fire. A large shape had appeared in it, revolving very fast. Seconds later, Professor Weasley was clambering out of the fireplace, brushing ash off his shabby robes.

"You called, Ron?" said Weasley mildly.

"I certainly did," said Weasley, his face contorted with fury as he strode back to his desk. "I have just asked Weasley to empty his pockets. He was carrying this."

Weasley pointed at the parchment, on which the words of Messrs. Moony,

Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs were still shining. An odd, closed expression appeared on Weasley's face.

"Well?" said Weasley.

Weasley continued to stare at the map. Ron had the impression that Weasley was doing some very quick thinking.

"Well?" said Weasley again. "This parchment is plainly full of Dark Magic.

This is supposed to be your area of expertise, Weasley. Where do you imagine Weasley got such a thing?"

Weasley looked up and, by the merest half­glance in Ron's direction,

warned him not to interrupt.

"Full of Dark Magic?" he repeated mildly. "Do you really think so,

Ron? It looks to me as though it is merely a piece of parchment that insults anybody who reads it. Childish, but surely not dangerous? I imagine Ron got it from a joke shop ­­"

"Indeed?" said Weasley. His jaw had gone rigid with anger. "You think a joke shop could supply him with such a thing? You don't think it more likely that he got it directly from the manufacturers?"

Ron didn't understand what Weasley was talking about. Nor, apparently,

did Weasley.

 "You mean, by Mr. Wormtail or one of these people?" he said. "Ron, do you know any of these men?"

"No," said Ron quickly.

"You see, Ron?" said Weasley, turning back to Weasley. "It looks like a Zonko product to me ­­"

Right on cue, Ron came bursting into the office. He was completely out of breath, and stopped just short of Weasley's desk, clutching the stitch in his chest and trying to speak.

"I ­­ gave ­­ Ron ­­ that ­­ stuff," he choked. "Bought ­­ it... in Zonko's... ages ­­ ago..."

"Well!" said Weasley, clapping his hands together and looking around cheerfully. "That seems to clear that up! Ron, I'll take this back,

shall I?" He folded the map and tucked it inside his robes. "Ron, Ron,

come with me, I need a word about my vampire essay ­­ excuse us, Ron ­­"

Ron didn't dare look at Weasley as they left his office. He. Ron, and Weasley walked all the way back into the entrance hall before speaking.

Then Ron turned to Weasley.

"Professor, I ­­"

"I don't want to hear explanations," said Weasley shortly. He glanced around the empty entrance hall and lowered his voice. "I happen to know that this map was confiscated by Mr. Weasley many years ago. Yes, I know it' s a map," he said as Ron and Ron looked amazed. "I don't want to know how it fell into your possession. I am, however, astounded that you didn't hand it in. Particularly after what happened the last time a student left information about the castle lying around. And I can't let you have it back, Ron."

Ron had expected that, and was too keen for explanations to protest.

"Why did Weasley think I'd got it from the manufacturers?"

 "Because...," Weasley hesitated, "because these mapmakers would have wanted to lure you out of school. They'd think it extremely entertaining."

"Do you know them?" said Ron, impressed.

"We've met," he said shortly. He was looking at Ron more seriously than ever before.

"Don't expect me to cover up for you again, Ron. I cannot make you take Ron Weasley seriously. But I would have thought that what you have heard when the dementors draw near you would have had more of an effect on you. Your parents gave their lives to keep you alive, Ron. A poor way to repay them ­­ gambling their sacrifice for a bag of magic tricks."

He walked away, leaving Ron feeling worse by far than he had at any point in Weasley's office. Slowly, he and Ron mounted the marble staircase. As Ron passed the one­eyed witch, he remembered the Invisibility Cloak ­­ it was still down there, but he didn't dare go and get it.

"It's my fault," said Ron abruptly. "I persuaded you to go. Weasley's right, it was stupid, we shouldn't've done it ­­"

He broke off; they reached the corridor where the security trolls were pacing, and Ron was walking toward them. One look at her face convinced Ron that she had heard what had happened. His heart plummeted ­­ had she told Professor Weasley?

"Come to have a good gloat?" said Ron savagely as she stopped in front of them. "Or have you just been to tell on us?"

"No," said Ron. She was holding a letter in her hands and her lip was trembling. "I just thought you ought to know... Weasley lost his case. Ron is going to be executed."

 CHAPTER FIFTEEN THE QUIDDITCH FINAL

He sent me this," Ron said, holding out the letter.

Ron took it. The parchment was damp, and enormous teardrops had smudged the ink so badly in places that it was very difficult to read.

Dear Ron, We lost. I'm allowed to bring him back to Hogwarts.

Execution date to be fixed. Beaky has enjoyed London. I won't forget all the help you gave us.

Weasley "They can't do this," said Ron. "They can't. Ron isn't dangerous."

"Weasley's dad's frightened the Committee into it," said Ron, wiping her eyes. "You know what he's like. They're a bunch of doddery old fools, and they were scared. There'll be an appeal, though, there always is. Only I can't see any hope.... Nothing will have changed."

"Yeah, it will," said Ron fiercely. "You won't have to do all the work alone this time, Ron. I'll help."

"Oh, Ron!"

Ron flung her arms around Ron's neck and broke down completely.

Ron, looking quite terrified, patted her very awkwardly on the top of the head. Finally, Ron drew away.

"Ron, I'm really, really sorry about Ron..." she sobbed.

"Oh ­­ well ­­ he was old," said Ron, looking thoroughly relieved that she had let go of him. "And he was a bit useless. You never know, Mum and Dad might get me an owl now."

The safety measures imposed on the students since Weasley's second break­in made it impossible for Ron, Ron, and Ron to go and visit Weasley in the evenings. Their only chance of talking to him was during Care of Magical Creatures lessons.

 He seemed numb with shock at the verdict.

"S'all my fault. Got all tongue­tied. They was all sittin' there in black robes an' I kep' droppin' me notes and forgettin' all them dates yeh looked up fer me, Ron. An' then Ron Weasley stood up an' said his bit, and the Committee jus' did exac'ly what he told 'em...."

"There's still the appeal!" said Ron fiercely. "Don't give up Yet, we're working on it!"

They were walking back up to the castle with the rest of the class.

Ahead they could see Weasley, who was walking with Weasley and Weasley, and kept looking back, laughing derisively.

"S'no good, Ron," said Weasley sadly as they reached the castle steps.

"That Committee's in Ron Weasley's pocket. I'm jus' gonna make sure the rest o' Beaky's time is the happiest he's ever had. I owe him that...."

Weasley turned around and hurried back toward his cabin, his face buried in his handkerchief.

"Look at him blubber!"

Weasley, Weasley, and Weasley had been standing just inside the castle doors, listening.

"Have you ever seen anything quite as pathetic?" said Weasley. "And he's supposed to be our teacher!"

Ron and Ron both made furious moves toward Weasley, but Ron got there first ­­ SMACK!

She had slapped Weasley across the face with all the strength she could muster. Weasley staggered. Ron, Ron, Weasley, and Weasley stood flabbergasted as Ron raised her hand again.

"Don't you dare call Weasley pathetic, you foul ­­ you evil ­­"

"Ron!" said Ron weakly, and he tried to grab her hand as she swung

it back.

"Get off, Ron!"

Ron pulled out her wand. Weasley stepped backward. Weasley and Weasley looked at him for instructions, thoroughly bewildered.

"C'mon," Weasley muttered, and in a moment, all three of them had disappeared into the passageway to the dungeons.

"Ron!" Ron said again, sounding both stunned and irnpressed.

"Ron, you'd better beat him in the Quidditch final!" Ron said shrilly. "You just better had, because I can't stand it if Weasley wins!"

"We're due in Charms," said Ron, still goggling at Ron. "We'd better go."

They hurried up the marble staircase toward Professor Weasley's classroom.

"You're late, boys!" said Professor Weasley reprovingly as Ron opened the classroom door. "Come along, quickly, wands out, we're experimenting with Cheering Charms today, we've already divided into pairs ­­"

Ron and Ron hurried to a desk at the back and opened their bags. Ron looked behind him.

"Where's Ron gone?"

Ron looked around too. Ron hadn't entered the classroom, yet Ron knew she had been right next to him when he had opened the door.

"That's weird," said Ron, staring at Ron. "Maybe ­­ maybe she went to the bathroom or something?"

But Ron didn't turn up all lesson.

"She could've done with a Cheering Charm on her too," said Ron as the

class left for lunch, all grinning broadly ­­ the Cheering Charms had left them with a feeling of great contentment.

Ron wasn't at lunch either. By the time they had finished their apple pie, the after­effects of the Cheering Charms were wearing off,

and Ron and Ron had started to get slightly worried.

"You don't think Weasley did something to her?" Ron said anxiously as they hurried upstairs toward Weasley Tower.

They passed the security trolls, gave the Ron Weasley the password ("Flibbertigibbet"), and scrambled through the portrait hole into the common room.

Ron was sitting at a table, fast asleep, her head resting on an open Arithmancy book. They went to sit down on either side of her. Ron prodded her awake.

"Wh ­­ what?" said Ron, waking with a start and staring wildly around. "Is it time to go? W ­­ which lesson have we got now?"

"Divination, but it's not for another twenty minutes," said Ron.

"Ron, why didn't you come to Charms?"

"What? Oh no!" Ron squeaked. "I forgot to go to Charms!"

"But how could you forget?" said Ron. "You were with us till we were right outside the classroom!"

"I don't believe it!" Ron wailed. "Was Professor Weasley angry?

Oh, it was Weasley, I was thinking about him and I lost track of things!"

"You know what, Ron?" said Ron, looking down at the enormous Arithmancy book Ron had been using as a pillow. "I reckon you're cracking up. You're trying to do too much."

"No, I'm not!" said Ron, brushing her hair out of her eyes and staring hopelessly around for her bag. "I just made a mistake, that's all! I'd better go and see Professor Weasley and say sorry... I'll see you in Divination!"

 Ron joined them at the foot of the ladder to Professor Weasleys classroom twenty minutes later, looking extremely harrassed.

"I can't believe I missed Cheering Charms! And I bet they come up in our exams; Professor Weasley hinted they might!"

Together they climbed the ladder into the dim, stifling tower room.

Glowing on every little table was a crystal ball full of pearly white mist. Ron, Ron, and Ron sat down together at the same rickety table.

"I thought we weren't starting crystal balls until next term," Ron muttered, casting a wary eye around for Professor Weasley, in case she was lurking nearby.

"Don't complain, this means we've finished palmistry," Ron muttered back. "I was getting sick of her flinching every time she looked at my hands."

"Good day to you!" said the familiar, misty voice, and Professor Weasley made her usual dramatic entrance out of the shadows. Ron and Ron quivered with excitement, their faces lit by the milky glow of their crystal ball.

"I have decided to introduce the crystal ball a little earlier than I had planned," said Professor Weasley, sitting with her back to the fire and gazing around. "The fates have informed me that your examination in June will concern the Orb, and I am anxious to give you sufficient practice."

Ron snorted.

"Well, honestly... 'the fates have informed her' who sets the exam? She does! What an amazing prediction!" she said, not troubling to keep her voice low. Ron and Ron choked back laughs.

It was hard to tell whether Professor Weasley had heard them as her face was hidden in shadow. She continued, however, as though she had not.

 "Crystal gazing is a particularly refined art," she said dreamily. "I do not expect any of you to See when first you peer into the Orb's infinite depths. We shall start by practicing relaxing the conscious mind and external eyes" ­­ Ron began to snigger uncontrollably and had to stuff his fist in his mouth to stifle the noise ­­ "so as to clear the Inner Eye and the superconscious. Perhaps, if we are lucky, some of you will see before the end of the class."

And so they began. Ron, at least, felt extremely foolish, staring blankly at the crystal ball, trying to keep his mind empty when thoughts such as "this is stupid" kept drifting across it. It didn't help that Ron kept breaking into silent giggles and Ron kept tutting.

"Seen anything yet?" Ron asked them after a quarter of an hour's quiet crystal gazing.

"Yeah, there's a burn on this table," said Ron, pointing. "Someone's spilled their candle."

"This is such a waste of time," Ron hissed. "I could be practicing something useful. I could be catching up on Cheering Charms ­­"

Professor Weasley rustled past.

"Would anyone like me to help them interpret the shadowy portents within their Orb?" she murmured over the clinking of her bangles.

I don't need help," Ron whispered. "It's obvious what this means.

There's going to be loads of fog tonight."

Both Ron and Ron burst out laughing.

"Now, really!" said Professor Weasley as everyone's heads turned in their direction. Ron and Ron were looking scandalized. "You are disturbing the clairvoyant vibrations!" She approached their table and peered into their crystal ball. Ron felt his heart sinking. He was sure he knew what was coming ­­ "There is something here!" Professor Weasley whispered, lowerng her

face to the ball, so that it was reflected twice in her huge glasses.

"Something moving... but what is it?"

Ron was prepared to bet everything he owned, Including his Firebolt,

that it wasn't good news, whatever it was. And sure enough ­­ "My dear Professor Weasley breathed, gazing up at Ron. "It is here,

plainer than ever before... my dear, stalking toward you, growing ever closer... the Gr ­­"

"Oh, for goodness' sake!" said Ron loudly. "Not that ridiculous Grim again!"

Professor Weasley raised her enormous eyes to Ron's face. Ron whispered something to Ron, and they both glared at Ron too.

Professor Weasley stood up, surveying Ron with unmistakable anger.

"I am sorry to say that from the moment you have arrived in this class my dear, it has been apparent that you do not have what the noble art of Divination requires. Indeed, I don't remember ever meeting a student whose mind was so hopelessly mundane."

There was a moment's silence. Then ­­ "Fine!" said Ron suddenly, getting up and cramming Unfogging the Future back into her bag. "Fine!" she repeated, swinging the bag over her shoulder and almost knocking Ron off his chair. "I give up! I'm leaving!"

And to the whole class's amazement, Ron strode over to the trapdoor, kicked it open, and climbed down the ladder out of sight.

It took a few minutes for the class to settle down again. Professor Weasley seemed to have forgotten all about the Grim. She turned abruptly from Ron and Ron's table, breathing rather heavily as she tugged her gauzy shawl more closely to her.

"Ooooo!" said Ron suddenly, making everyone start. "Ooooo,

Professor Weasley, I've just remembered! You saw her leaving, didn't

you? Didn't you, Professor? 'Around Easter, one of our number will leave us forever!' You said it ages ago, Professor!"

Professor Weasley gave her a dewy smile.

"Yes, my dear, I did indeed know that Miss Weasley would be leaving us.

One hopes, however, that one might have mistaken the Signs.... The Inner Eye can be a burden, you know..."

Ron and Ron looked deeply impressed, and moved over so that Professor Weasley could join their table instead.

"Some day Ron's having, eh?" Ron muttered to Ron, looking awed.

"Yeah..."

Ron glanced into the crystal ball but saw nothing but swirling white mist. Had Professor Weasley really seen the Grim again? Would he? The last thing he needed was another near­fatal accident, with the Quidditch final drawing ever nearer.

The Easter holidays were not exactly relaxing. The third years had never had so much homework. Ron Weasley seemed close to a nervous collapse, and he wasn't the only one.

"Call this a holiday!" Ron Weasley roared at the common room one afternoon. "The exams are ages away, what're they playing at?"

But nobody had as much to do as Ron. Even without Divination, she was taking more subjects than anybody else. She was usually last to leave the common room at night, first to arrive at the library the next morning; she had shadows like Weasley's under her eyes, and seemed constantly close to tears.

Ron had taken over responsibility for Ron's appeal. When he wasn't doing his own work, he was poring over enormously thick volumes with names like The Handbook of Hippogriff Psychology and Fowl or Foul? A Study of Hippogriff Brutality. He was so absorbed, he even forgot to be horrible to Ron.

 Ron, meanwhile, had to fit in his homework around Quidditch practice every day, not to mention endless discussions of tactics with Weasley. The Weasley­Weasley match would take place on the first Saturday after the Easter holidays. Weasley was leading the tournament by exactly two hundred points. This meant (as Weasley constantly reminded his team) that they needed to win the match by more than that amount to win the Cup. It also meant that the burden of winning fell largely on Ron, because capturing the Snitch was worth one hundred and fifty points.

"So you must catch it only if we're more than fifty points up," Weasley told Ron constantly. "Only if we're more than fifty points up, Ron,

or we win the match but lose the Cup. You've got that, Haven't you? You must catch the Snitch only if we're ­­"

"I KNOW, Ron!" Ron yelled.

The whole of Weasley House was obsessed with the coming match.

Weasley hadn't won the Quidditch Cup since the legendary Ron Weasley (Ron's second oldest brother) had been seeker. But Ron doubted whether any of them, even Weasley, wanted to win as much as he did. The enmity between Ron and Weasley was at its highest point ever. Weasley was still smarting ,bout the mud­throwing incident in Hogsmeade and was even more furious that Ron had somehow wormed his way out of punishment. Ron hadn't forgotten Weasley's attempt to sabotage him in the match against Weasley, but it was the matter of Ron that made him most determined to beat Weasley in front of the entire school.

Never, in anyone's memory, had a match approached in such a highly charged atmosphere. By the time the holidays were over, tension between the two teams and their Houses was at the breaking point. A number of small scuffles broke out in the corridors, culminating in a nasty incident in which a Weasley fourth year and a Weasley sixth year ended up in the hospital wing with leeks sprouting out of their ears.

Ron was having a particularly bad time of it. He couldn't walk to class without Weasleys sticking out their legs and trying to trip him up; Weasley and Weasley kept popping up wherever he went, and slouching away looking disappointed when they saw him surrounded by people. Weasley had given instructions that Ron should be accompanied everywhere he went, in case the Weasleys tried to put him out of action. The whole

of Weasley House took up the challenge enthusiastically, so that it was impossible for Ron to get to classes on time because he was surrounded by a vast, chattering crowd. Ron was more concerned for his Firebolt's safety than his own. When he wasn't flying it, he locked it securely in his trunk and frequently dashed back up to Weasley Tower at break times to check that it was still there.

All usual pursuits were abandoned in the Weasley common room the night before the match. Even Ron had Put down her books.

"I can't work, I can't concentrate," she said nervously.

There was a great deal of noise. Ron and Ron Weasley were dealing with the pressure by being louder and more exuberant than ever. Ron Weasley was crouched over a model of a Quidditch field in the corner,

prodding little figures across it with his wand and muttering to himself Ron, Ron, and Ron were laughing at Ron's and Ron's jokes.

Ron was sitting with Ron and Ron, removed from the center of things, trying not to think about the next day, because every time he did, he had the horrible sensation that something very large was fighting to get out of his stomach.

"You're going to be fine," Ron told him, though she looked positively terrified.

"You've got a Firebolt!" said Ron.

"Yeah..." said Ron, his stomach writhing.

It came as a relief when Weasley suddenly stood up and yelled, "Team! Bed!"

Ron slept badly. First he dreamed that he had overslept, and that Weasley was yelling, "Where were you? We had to use Ron instead!" Then he dreamed that Weasley and the rest of the Weasley team arrived for the match riding dragons. He was flying at breakneck speed, trying to avoid a spurt of flames from Weasley's steed's mouth, when he realized he had forgotten his Firebolt. He fell through the air and woke with a start.

It was a few seconds before Ron remembered that the match hadn't taken place yet, that he was safe in bed, and that the Weasley team

definitely wouldn't be allowed to play on dragons. He was feeling very thirsty. Quietly as he could, he got out of his four­poster and went to pour himself some water from the silver jug beneath the window.

The grounds were still and quiet. No breath of wind disturbed the treetops in the Forbidden Forest; the Whomping Willow was motionless and innocent­looking. It looked as though the conditions for the match would be perfect.

Ron set down his goblet and was about to turn back to his bed when something caught his eye. An animal of some kind was prowling across the silvery lawn.

Ron dashed to his bedside table, snatched up his glasses, and put them on, then hurried back to the window. It couldn't be the Grim ­­ not now ­­ not right before the match ­ He peered out at the grounds again and, after a minute's frantic searching, spotted it. It was skirting the edge of the forest now... It wasn't the Grim at all ... it was a cat.... Ron clutched the window ledge in relief as he recognized the bottlebrush tail. It was only Ron....

Or was it only Ron? Ron squinted, pressing his nose flat against the glass. Ron seemed to have come to a halt. Ron was sure he could see something else moving in the shadow of the trees too.

And just then, it emerged ­­ a gigantic, shaggy black dog, moving stealthily across the lawn, Ron trotting at its side. Ron stared. What did this mean? If Ron could see the dog as well,

how could it be an omen of Ron's death?

"Ron!" Ron hissed. "Ron! Wake up!"

"Huh?"

I need you to tell me if you can see something!"

"S'all dark, Ron," Ron muttered thickly. "What're you or, about?"

 "Down here ­­"

Ron looked quickly back out of the window.

Ron and the dog had vanished. Ron climbed onto the windowsill to look right down into the shadows of the castle, but they weren't there. Where had they gone?

A loud snore told him Ron had fallen asleep again.

Ron and the rest of the Weasley team entered the Great Hall the next day to enormous applause. Ron couldn't help grinning broadly as he saw that both the Weasley and Weasley tables were applauding them too. The Weasley table hissed loudly as they passed. Ron noticed that Weasley looked even paler than usual.

Weasley spent the whole of breakfast urging his team to eat, while touching nothing himself Then he hurried them off to the field before anyone else had finished, so they could get an idea of the conditions. As they left the Great Hall, everyone applauded again.

"Good luck, Ron!" called Ron. Ron felt himself blushing.

"Okay ­­ no wind to speak of ­­ sun's a bit bright, that could impair your vision, watch out for it ­­ ground's fairly hard, good, that'll give us a fast kickoff ­­"

Weasley paced the field, staring around with the team behind him. Finally,

they saw the front doors of the castle open in the distance and the rest of the school spilling onto the lawn.

"Locker rooms," said Weasley tersely.

None of them spoke as they changed into their scarlet robes. Ron wondered if they were feeling like he was: as though he'd eaten something extremely wriggly for breakfast. In what seemed like no time at all, Weasley was saying, "Okay, it's time, let's go ­­"

They walked out onto the field to a tidal wave of noise. Threequarters of the crowd was wearing scarlet rosettes, waving scarlet flags with the

Weasley lion upon them, or brandishing banners with slogans like "GO Weasley!" and "LIONS FOR THE CUK' Behind the Weasley goal posts,

however, two hundred people were wearing green; the silver serpent of Weasley glittered on their flags, and Professor Weasley sat in the very front row, wearing green like everyone else, and a very grim smile.

"And here are the Weasleys!" yelled Ron Weasley, who was acting as commentator as usual. "Weasley, Weasley, Ronson, Weasley, Weasley, Weasley,

and Weasley. Widely acknowledged as the best team Hogwarts has seen in a good few years ­­"

Ron's comments were drowned by a tide of "boos" from the Weasley end.

"And here come the Weasley team, led by Captain Weasley. He's Made some changes in the lineup and seems to be going for size rather than skill ­­"

More boos from the Weasley crowd. Ron, however, thought Ron had a point. Weasley was easily the smallest person On the Weasley team; the rest of them were enormous.

"Captains, shake hands!" said Ron Weasley.

Weasley and Weasley approached each other and grasped each other's hand very tightly; it looked as though each was trying to break the other's fingers.

"Mount your brooms!" said Ron Weasley. "Three... two... one..."

The sound of her whistle was lost in the roar from the crowd as fourteen brooms rose into the air. Ron felt his hair fly back off his forehead; his nerves left him in the thrill of the flight; he glanced around, saw Weasley on his tail, and sped off in search of the Snitch.

"And it's Weasley in possession, Ron Spinner of Weasley with the Quaffle, heading straight for the Weasley goal posts, looking good, Ron! Argh, no ­­ Quaffle intercepted by Warrington, Warrington of Weasley tearing UP the field ­­ WHAM! ­­ nice Bludger work there by Ron Weasley, Warrington drops the Quaffle, it's caught by ­­ Ronson,

Weasley back in possession, come on, Ron ­­ nice swerve around

Weasley ­­ duck, Ron, that's a Bludger!­ SHE SCORES! TEN­ZERO TO Weasley!"

Ron punched the air as she soared around the end of the field; the sea of scarlet below was screaming its delight "OUCH!"

Ron was nearly thrown from her broom as Ron Weasley went smashing into her.

"Sorry!" said Weasley as the crowd below booed. "Sorry, didn't see her!"

A moment later, Ron Weasley chucked his Beater's club at the back of Weasley's head. Weasley's nose smashed into the handle of his broom and began to bleed.

"That will do!" shrieked Ron Weasley, zooming between then. "Penalty shot to Weasley for an unprovoked attack on their Chaser! Penalty shot to Weasley for deliberate damage to their Chaser!"

"Come off it, Miss!" howled Ron, but Ron Weasley blew her whistle and Ron flew forward to take the penalty.

"Come on, Ron!" yelled Ron into the silence that had descended on the crowd. "YES! SHE'S BEATEN THE KEEPER! TWENTY­ZERO TO Weasley!"

Ron turned the Firebolt sharply to watch Weasley, still bleeding freely,

fly forward to take the Weasley penalty. Weasley was hovering in front of the Weasley goal posts, his jaw clenched.

"'Course, Weasley's a superb Keeper!" Ron Weasley told the crowd as Weasley waited for Ron Weasley's whistle. "Superb! Very difficult to pass ­­ very difficult indeed ­­ YES! I DON'T BELIEVE IT! HE'S SAVED IT!"

Relieved, Ron zoomed away, gazing around for the Snitch, but still making sure he caught every word of Ron's commentary. It was essential that he hold Weasley off the Snitch until Weasley was more than fifty points up ­­

"Weasley in possession, no, Weasley in possession ­­ no!

Weasley back in possession and it's Ron Weasley, Ron Weasley for Weasley with the Quaffle, she's streaking up the field ­­ THAT WAS DELIBERATE!"

Weasley, a Weasley Chaser, had swerved in front of Ron, and instead of seizing the Quaffle had grabbed her head. Ron cart wheeled in the air, managed to stay on her broom, but dropped the Quaffle.

Ron Weasley's whistle rang out again as she soared over to Weasley and began shouting at him. A minute later, Ron had put another penalty past the Weasley Seeker.

"THIRTY­ZERO! TAKE THAT, YOU DIRTY, CHEATING ­­"

"Weasley, if you can't commentate in an unbiased way ­­"

"I'm telling it like it is, Professor!"

Ron felt a huge jolt of excitement. He had seen the Snitch it was shimmering at the foot of one of the Weasley goal posts ­­ but he mustn't catch it yet ­­ and if Weasley saw it ­ Faking a look of sudden concentration, Ron pulled his Firebolt around and sped off toward the Weasley end ­­ it worked. Weasley went haring after him, clearly thinking Ron had seen the Snitch there....

WHOOSH.

One of the Bludgers came streaking past Ron's right ear, hit by the gigantic Weasley Beater, Derrick. Then again WHOOSH.

The second Bludger grazed Ron's elbow. The other Beater, Bole, was closing in.

Ron had a fleeting glimpse of Bole and Derrick zooming toward him,

 clubs raised ­­ He turned the Firebolt upward at the last second, and Bole and Derrick collided with a sickening crunch.

"Ha haaa!" yelled Ron Weasley as the Weasley Beaters lurched away from each other, clutching their heads. "Too bad, boys! You'll need to get up earlier than that to beat a Firebold And it's Weasley in possession again, as Ronson takes the Quaffle ­­ Weasley alongside her ­­ poke him in the eye, Ron! ­­ it was a joke, Professor, it was a joke ­­ oh no ­­ Weasley in possession, Weasley flying toward the Weasley goal posts, come on now, Weasley, save ­­!"

But Weasley had scored; there was an eruption of cheers from the Weasley end, and Ron swore so badly that Professor Weasley tried to tug the magical megaphone away from him.

"Sorry, Professor, sorry! WoiA happen again! So, Weasley in the lead,

thirty points to ten, and Weasley in possession ­­"

it was turning into the dirtiest game Ron had ever played in. Enraged that Weasley had taken such an early lead, the Weasleys were rapidly resorting to any means to take the Quaffle. Bole hit Ron with his club and tried to say he'd thought she was a Bludger. Ron Weasley elbowed Bole in the face in retaliation. Ron Weasley awarded both teams penalties, and Weasley pulled off another spectacular save, making the score forty­ten to Weasley.

The Snitch had disappeared again. Weasley was still keeping close to Ron as he soared over the match, looking around for it once Weasley was fifty points ahead ­ Ron scored. Fifty­ten. Ron and Ron Weasley were swooping around her, clubs raised, in case any of the Weasleys were thinking of revenge. Bole and Derrick took advantage of Ron's and Ron's absence to aim both Bludgers at Weasley; they caught him in the stomach, one after the other, and he rolled over in the air, clutching his broom,

completely winded.

Ron Weasley was beside herself

"YOU DO NOT ATTACK THE KEEPER UNLESS THE QUAFFLE IS WITHIN THE SCORING AREA!" she shrieked at Bole and Derrick. "Weasley penalty!"

And Ron scored. Sixty­ten. Moments later, Ron Weasley pelted a Bludger at Warrington, knocking the Quaffle Out of his hands; Ron seized it and put it through the Weasley goal ­­ seventy­ten.

The Weasley crowd below was screaming itself hoarse ­­ Weasley was sixty points in the lead, and if Ron caught the Snitch now, the Cup was theirs. Ron could almost feel hundreds of eyes following him as he soared around the field, high above the rest of the game, with Weasley speeding along behind him.

And then he saw it. The Snitch was sparkling twenty feet above him.

Ron put on a huge burst of speed; the wind was roaring in his ears; he stretched out his hand, but suddenly, the Firebolt was slowing down ­­ Horrified, he looked around. Weasley had thrown himself forward, grabbed hold of the Firebolt's tail, and was pulling it back.

"You ­­"

Ron was angry enough to hit Weasley, but couldn't reach ­­ Weasley was panting with the effort of holding onto the Firebolt, but his eyes were sparkling maliciously. He had achieved what he'd wanted to do ­­ the Snitch had disappeared again.

"Penalty! Penalty to Weasley! I've never seen such tactics." Ron Weasley screeched, shooting up to where Weasley was sliding back onto his Nimbus Two Thousand and One.

"YOU CHEATING SCUM!" Ron Weasley was howling into the megaphone,

dancing out of Professor Weasley's reach. "YOU FILTHY, CHEATING B ­­"

Pprofessor Weasley didn't even bother to tell him off She was actually shaking her finger in Weasleys direction, her hat had fallen

off, and she too was shouting furiously.

Ron took Weasley's penalty, but she was so angry she missed by several feet. The Weasley team was losing concentration and the Weasleys, delighted by Weasley's foul on Ron, were being spurred on to greater heights.

"Weasley in possession, Weasley heading for goal ­­ Weasley scores ­­" Ron groaned. "Seventy­ twenty to Weasley..."

Ron was now marking Weasley so closely their knees kept hitting each other. Ron wasn't going to let Weasley anywhere near the Snitch....

"Get out of it, Weasley!" Weasley yelled in frustration as he tried to turn and found Ron blocking him.

"Ron Ronson gets the Quaffle for Weasley, come on, Ron,

COME ON!"

Ron looked around. Every single Weasley player apart from Weasley was streaking up the pitch toward Ron, including the Weasley Keeper ­­ they were all going to block her ­­ Ron wheeled the Firebolt around, bent so low he was lying flat along the handle, and kicked it forward. Like a bullet, he shot toward the Weasleys.

"AAAAAAARRRGH!"

They scattered as the Firebolt zoomed toward them; Ron's Way was clear.

"SHE SCORES! SHE SCORES! Weasley leads by eighty Points to twenty!"

Ron, who had almost pelted headlong into the stands, skidded to a halt in midair, reversed, and zoomed back into the middle of the field.

And then he saw something to make his heart stand still. Weasley was diving, a look of triumph on his face ­­ there, a few feet above the grass below, was a tiny, golden glimmer ­

Ron urged the Firebolt downward, but Weasley was miles ahead ­ "Go! Go! Go!" Ron urged his broom. He was gaining on Malfay ­­ Ron flattened himself to the broom handle as Bole sent a Bludger at him ­­ he was at Weasley's ankles ­­ he was level ­­ Ron threw himself forward, took both hands off his broom. He knocked Weasley's arm out of the way and ­­ "YES!"

He pulled out of his dive, his hand in the air, and the stadium exploded. Ron soared above the crowd, an odd ringing in his ears. The tiny golden ball was held tight in his fist, beating its wings hopelessly against his fingers.

Then Weasley was speeding toward him, half­blinded by tears; he seized Ron around the neck and sobbed unrestrainedly into his shoulder. Ron felt two large thumps as Ron and Ron hit them; then Ron's,

Ron's, and Ron's voices, "We've won the Cup! We've won the Cup!"

Tangled together in a many­armed hug, the Weasley team sank, yelling hoarsely, back to earth.

Wave upon wave of crimson supporters was pouring over the barriers onto the field. Hands were raining down on their backs. Ron had a confused impression of noise and bodies pressing in on him. Then he, and the rest of the team, were hoisted onto the shoulders of the crowd. Thrust into the light, he saw Weasley, Plastered with crimson rosettes ­­ "Yeh beat 'em, Ron, yeh beat 'em!

Wait till I tell Ron!" There was Ron, jumping up and down like a maniac, all dignity forgotten. Professor Weasley was sobbing harder even than Weasley, wiping her eyes with an enormous Weasley flag; and there, fighting their way toward Ron, were Ron and Ron. Words failed them. They simply beamed as Ron was borne toward the stands,

where Weasley stood waiting with the enormous Quidditch Cup.

If only there had been a dementor around.... As a sobbing Weasley passed Ron the Cup, as he lifted it into the air, Ron felt he could have

produced the world's best Patronus.

 CHAPTER SIXTEEN PROFESSOR Weasley'S PREDICTION

Ron's euphoria at finally winning the Quidditch Cup lasted at least a week. Even the weather seemed to be celebrating; as June approached, the days became cloudless and sultry, and all anybody felt like doing was strolling onto the grounds and flopping down on the grass with several pints of iced pumpkin juice, perhaps playing a casual game of Gobstones or watching the giant squid propel itself dreamily across the surface of the lake.

But they couldn't. Exams were nearly upon them, and instead of lazing around outside, the students were forced to remain inside the castle,

trying to bully their brains into concentrating while enticing wafts of summer air drifted in through the windows. Even Ron and Ron Weasley had been spotted working; they were about to take their O.W.L.s (Ordinary Wizarding Levels). Ron was getting ready to take his N.E.W.T.s (Nastily Exhausting Wizarding Tests), the highest qualification Hogwarts offered. As Ron hoped to enter the Ministry of Magic, he needed top grades. He was becoming increasingly edgy, and gave very severe punishments to anybody who disturbed the quiet of the common room in the evenings. In fact, the only person who seemed more anxious than Ron was Ron.

Ron and Ron had given up asking her how she was managing to attend several classes at once, but they couldn't restrain themselves when they saw the exam schedule she had drawn up for herself. The first column read:

Monday 9 o'clock, Arithmancy 9 o'clock, Transfiguration Lunch

1 o'clock, Charms 1 o'clock, Ancient Runes "Ron?" Ron said cautiously, because she was liable to explode when interrupted these days. "Er ­­ are you sure you've copied down these times right?"

"What?" snapped Ron, picking up the exam schedule and examining it.

"Yes, of course I have."

"Is there any point asking how you're going to sit for two exams at once?" said Ron.

"No," said Ron shortly. "Have either of you seen my copy of Numerology and Gramatica?"

"Oh, yeah, I borrowed it for a bit of bedtime reading," said Ron, but very quietly. Ron started shifting heaps of parchment Ron, Ron,

and Ron plenty of opportunity to speak to Weasley.

"Beaky's gettin' a bit depressed," Weasley told them, bending low on the pretense of checking that Ron's flobberworm was still alive. "Bin cooped up too long. But still... we'll know day after tomorrow ­­ one way or the other ­­"

They had Potions that afternoon, which was an unqualified disaster. Try as Ron might, he couldn't get his Confusing Concoction to thicken, and Weasley, standing watch with an air of vindictive pleasure, scribbled something that looked suspiciously like a zero onto his notes before moving away.

Then came Astronomy at midnight, up on the tallest tower; History of Magic on Wednesday morning, in which Ron scribbled everything Ron Weasley had ever told him about medieval witch­hunts, while wishing he could have had one of Weasley's choco­nut sundaes with him in the stifling classroom. Wednesday afternoon meant Herbology, in the greenhouses under a baking­hot sun; then back to the common room once more, with sunburnt necks, thinking longingly of this time next day,

when it would all be over.

 Their second to last exam, on Thursday morning, was Defense Against the Dark Arts. Professor Weasley had compiled the most unusual exam any of them had ever taken; a sort of obstacle course outside in the sun, where they had to wade across a deep paddling pool containing a grindylow,

cross a series of potholes full of Red Caps, squish their way across a patch of marsh while ignoring misleading directions from a hinkypunk,

then climb into an old trunk and battle with a new boggart.

"Excellent, Ron," Weasley muttered as Ron climbed out of the trunk,

grinning. "Full marks."

Flushed with his success, Ron hung around to watch Ron and Ron.

Ron did very well until he reached the hinkypunk, which successfully confused him into sinking waist­high into the quagmire. Ron did everything perfectly until she reached the trunk with the boggart in it.

After about a minute inside it, she burst out again, screaming.

"Ron!" said Weasley, startled. "What's the matter?"

"P ­­ P ­­ Professor Weasley!" Ron gasped, pointing into the trunk. "Sh ­­ she said I'd failed everything!"

It took a little while to calm Ron down. When at last she had regained a grip on herself, she, Ron, and Ron went back to the castle.

Ron was still slightly inclined to laugh at Ron's boggart, but an argument was averted by the sight that met them on the top of the steps.

Ron Weasley, sweating slightly in his pinstriped cloak, was standing there staring out at the grounds. He started at the sight of Ron.

"Hello there, Ron!" he said. "Just had an exam, I expect? Nearly finished?"

"Yes," said Ron. Ron and Ron, not being on speaking terms with the Minister of Magic, hovered awkwardly in the background.

"Lovely day," said Weasley, casting an eye over the lake.

"Pity... pity..."

 He sighed deeply and looked down at Ron.

"I'm here on an unpleasant mission, Ron. The Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures required a witness to the execution of a mad hippogriff. As I needed to visit Hogwarts to check on the Weasley situation, I was asked to step in."

"Does that mean the appeal's already happened?" Ron interrupted,

stepping forward.

"No, no, it's scheduled for this afternoon," said Weasley, looking curiously at Ron.

"Then you might not have to witness an execution at A!" said Eon stoutly. "The hippogriff might get off!"

Before Weasley could answer, two wizards came through the castle doors behind him. One was so ancient he appeared to be withering before their very eyes; the other was tall and strapping, with a thin back mustache.

Ron gathered that they were representatives of the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures, because tie very old wizard squinted toward Weasley's cabin and said in a feeble voice, "Dear, dear, I'm getting too old for this.... Two o'clock, isn't it, Weasley?"

The black­mustached man was fingering something in his belt; Ron looked and saw that he was running one broad thumb along the blade of a shining axe. Ron opened his mouth to say something, but Ron nudged him hard in the ribs and jerked her head toward the entrance hall.

"Why'd you stop me?" said Ron angrily as they entered the Great Hall for lunch. "Did you see them? They've even got the axe ready! This isn't justice!"

"Ron, your dad works for the Ministry, you can't go saying things like that to his boss!" said Ron, but she too looked very upset. "As long as Weasley keeps his head this time, and argue, hi case properly,

they can't possibly execute Ron...."

But Ron could tell Ron didn't really believe what she was saying.

 All around them, people were talking excitedly as they ate their lunch,

happily anticipating the end of the exams that afternoon, but Ron,

Ron, and Ron, lost in worry about Weasley and Ron, didn't join in.

Ron's and Ron's last exam was Divination; Ron's, Muggle Studies.

They walked up the marble staircase together; Ron left them on the first floor and Ron and Ron proceeded all the way up to the seventh,

where many of their class were sitting on the spiral staircase to Professor Weasley's classroom, trying to cram in a bit of last­minute studying.

"She's seeing us all separately," Ron informed them as they went to sit down next to him. He had his copy of Unfogging the Future open on his lap at the pages devoted to crystal gazing. "Have either of you ever seen anything in a crystal ball?" he asked them unhappily.

"Nope," said Ron in an offhand voice. He kept checking his watch; Ron.

knew that he was counting down the time until Ron's appeal started.

The line of people outside the classroom shortened very slowly. As each person climbed back down the silver ladder, the rest of the class hissed, "What did she ask? Was it okay?"

But they all refused to say.

"She says the crystal ball's told her that if I tell you, I'll have a horrible accident!" squeaked Ron as he clambered back down the ladder toward Ron and Ron, who had now reached the landing.

"That's convenient," snorted Ron. "You know, I'm starting to think Ron was right about her" ­­ he jabbed his thumb toward the trapdoor overhead ­­ "she's a right old fraud."

"Yeah," said Ron, looking at his own watch. It­was now two o'clock.

"Wish she'd hurry up..."

Ron came back down the ladder glowing with pride.

"She says I've got all the makings of a true Seer," she informed Ron

and Ron. "I saw loads of stuff... Well, good luck!"

She hurried off down the spiral staircase toward Ron.

"Ronald Weasley," said the familiar, misty voice from over their heads.

Ron grimaced at Ron and climbed the silver ladder out of sight. Ron was now the only person left to be tested. He settled himself on the floor with his back against the wall, listening to a fly buzzing in the sunny window, his mind across the grounds with Weasley.

Finally, after about twenty minutes, Ron's large feet reappeared on the ladder.

"How'd it go?" Ron asked him, standing up.

"Rubbish," said Ron. "Couldn't see a thing, so I made some stuff up.

Don't think she was convinced, though...."

"Meet you in the common room," Ron muttered as Professor Weasley's voice called, "Ron Weasley!"

The tower room was hotter than ever before; the curtains were closed,

the fire was alight, and the usual sickly scent made Ron cough as he stumbled through the clutter of chairs and table to where Professor Weasley sat waiting for him before a large crystal ball.

"Good day, my dear," she said softly. "If you would kindly gaze into the Orb.... Take your time, now... then tell me what you see within it...."

Ron bent over the crystal ball and stared, stared as hard as he could,

willing it to show him something other than swirling white fog, but nothing happened.

"Well?" Professor Weasley prompted delicately. "What do you see?"

The heat was overpowering and his nostrils were stinging with the perfumed smoke wafting from the fire beside them. He thought of what Ron had just said, and decided to pretend.

"Er ­­" said Ron, "a dark shape... um..."

 "What does it resemble?" whispered Professor Weasley. "Think, now..."

Ron cast his mind around and it landed on Ron.

"A hippogriff," he said firmly.

"Indeed!" whispered Professor Weasley, scribbling keenly on the parchment perched upon her knees. "My boy, you may well be seeing the outcome of poor Weasley's trouble with the Ministry of Magic! Look closer... Does the hippogriff appear to... have its head?"

"Yes," said Ron firmly.

"Are you sure?" Professor Weasley urged him. "Are you quite sure,

dear? You don't see it writhing on the ground, perhaps, and a shadowy figure raising an axe behind it?"

"No!" said Ron, starting to feel slightly sick.

"No blood? No weeping Weasley?"

"No!" said Ron again, wanting more than ever to leave the room and the heat. "It looks fine, it's ­ ­ flying away..."

Professor Weasley sighed.

"Well, dear, I think we'll leave it there.... A little disappointing...

but I'm sure you did your best."

Relieved, Ron got up, picked up his bag and turned to go, but then a loud, harsh voice spoke behind him.

"IT WILL HAPPEN TONIGHT."

Ron wheeled around. Professor Weasley had gone rigid in her armchair; her eyes were unfocused and her mouth sagging.

"S ­­ sorry?" said Ron.

 But Professor Weasley didn't seem to hear him. Her eyes started to roll. Ron sat there in a panic. She looked as though she was about to have some sort of seizure. He hesitated, thinking of running to the hospital wing ­­ and then Professor Weasley spoke again, in the same harsh voice, quite unlike her own:

"THE DARK LORD LIES ALONE AND FRIENDLESS, ABANDONED BY HIS FOLLOWERS.

HIS SERVANT HAS BEEN CHAINED THESE TWELVE YEARS. TONIGHT,

BEFORE MIDNIGHT... THE SERVANT WILL BREAK FREE AND SET OUT TO REJOIN HIS MASTER. THE DARK LORD WILL RISE AGAIN WITH HIS SERVANTS AID, GREATER AND MORE TERRIBLE THAN EVER HE WAS. TONIGHT... BEFORE MIDNIGHT... THE SERVANT... WILL SET OU... TO REJOIN... HIS MASTER....

Professor Weasley's head fell forward onto her chest. She made a grunting sort of noise. Ron sat there, staring at her. Then, quite suddenly, Professor Weasley's head snapped up again.

"I'm so sorry, dear boy," she said dreamily, "the heat of the day, you know... I drifted off for a moment...."

Ron sat there, staring at her.

"Is there anything wrong, my dear?"

"You ­­ you just told me that the ­­ the Dark Lord's going to rise again... that his servant's going to go back to him.

Professor Weasley looked thoroughly startled.

"The Dark Lord? He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named? My dear boy, that's hardly something to joke about.... Rise again, indeed ­­"

,'But you just said it! You. said the Dark Lord ­­"

"I think you must have dozed off too, dear!" said Professor Weasley.

 "I would certainly not presume to predict anything quite as far­fetched as that!"

Ron climbed back down the ladder and the spiral staircase,

wondering... had he just heard Professor Weasley make a real prediction? Or had that been her idea of an impressive end to the test?

Five minutes later he was dashing past the security trolls outside the entrance to Weasley Tower, Professor Weasley's words still resounding in his head. People were striding past him in the opposite direction, laughing and joking, heading for the grounds and a bit of long­awaited freedom; by the time he had reached the portrait hole and entered the common room, it was almost deserted. Over in the corner,

however, sat Ron and Ron.

"Professor Weasley," Ron panted, "just told me ­­"

But he stopped abruptly at the sight of their faces.

"Ron lost," said Ron weakly. "Weasley's just sent this."

Weasley's note was dry this time, no tears had splattered it, yet his hand seemed to have shaken so much as he wrote that it was hardly legible.

Lost appeal. They're going to execute at sunset. Nothing you can do.

Don't come down. I don't want you to see it.

Weasley "We've got to go," said Ron at once. "He can't just sit there on his own, waiting for the executioner!"

"Sunset, though," said Ron, who was staring out the window ill a glazed sort of way. "We'd never be allowed... 'specially you, Ron...."

Ron sank his head into his hands, thinking.

"If we only had the Invisibility Cloak...."

 "Where is it?" said Ron.

Ron told her about leaving it in the passageway under the one­eyed witch.

"... if Weasley sees me anywhere near there again, I'm in serious trouble," he finished.

"That's true," said Ron, getting to her feet. "If he sees you....

How do you open the witch's hump again?"

"You ­­ you tap it and say, 'Dissendium,'" said Ron. "But ­­"

Ron didn't wait for the rest of his sentence; she strode across the room, pushed open the Ron Weasley's portrait and vanished from sight.

"She hasn't gone to get it?" Ron said, staring after her.

She had. Ron returned a quarter of an hour later with the silvery cloak folded carefully under her robes.

"Ron, I don't know what's gotten, into you lately!" said Ron,

astounded. "First you hit Weasley, then you walk out on Professor Weasley ­­"

Ron looked rather flattered.

They went down to dinner with everybody else, but did not return to Weasley Tower afterward. Ron had the cloak hidden down tie front of his robes; he had to keep his arms folded to hide the lump. They skulked in an empty chamber off the entrance hall, listening, until they were sure it was deserted. They heard a last pair of people hurrying across the hall and a door slamming. Ron poked her head around the door.

"Okay," she whispered, "no one there ­­ cloak on ­­"

Walking very close together so that nobody would see them, they crossed the hall on tiptoe beneath the cloak, then walked down the stone front steps into the grounds. The sun was already sinking behind the Forbidden Forest, gilding the top branches of the trees.

 They reached Weasley's cabin and knocked. He was a minute in answering,

and when he did, he looked all around for his visitor, pale­faced and trembling.

"It's us," Ron hissed. "We're wearing the Invisibility Cloak. Let us in and we can take it off."

"Yeh shouldn've come!" Weasley whispered, but he stood back, and they stepped inside. Weasley shut the door quickly and Ron pulled off the cloak.

Weasley was not crying, nor did he throw himself upon their necks. He looked like a man who did not know where he was or what to do. This helplessness was worse to watch than tears.

"Wan' some tea?" he said. His great hands were shaking as he reached for the kettle.

"Where's Ron, Weasley?" said Ron hesitantly.

I ­­ I took him outside," said Weasley, spilling milk all over the table as he filled up the jug. "He's tethered in me pumpkin patch. Thought he oughta see the trees an' ­­ an' smell fresh air ­­ before Weasley's hand trembled so violently that the milk jug slipped from his grasp and shattered all over the floor.

"I'll do it, Weasley," said Ron quickly, hurrying over and starting to clean up the mess.

"There's another one in the cupboard," Weasley said, sitting down and wiping his forehead on his sleeve. Ron glanced at Ron, who looked back hopelessly.

"Isn't there anything anyone can do, Weasley?" Ron asked fiercely,

sitting down next to him. "Weasley ­­"

"He's tried," said Weasley. "He's got no power ter overrule the Committee. He told 'em Ron's all right, but they're scared.... Yeh

know what Ron Weasley's like... threatened 'em, I expect... an' the executioner, Weasley, he's an old pal o' Weasley's... but it'll be quick an' clean... an' I'll be beside him.... "

Weasley swallowed. His eyes were darting all over the cabin as though looking for some shred of hope or comfort.

"Weasley's gonna come down while it ­­ while it happens. Wrote me this mornin'. Said he wants ter ­­ ter be with me. Great man,

Weasley...."

Ron, who had been rummaging in Weasley's cupboard for another milk jug, let out a small, quickly stifled sob. She straightened up with the new jug in her hands, fighting back tears.

"We'll stay with you too, Weasley," she began, but Weasley shook his shaggy head.

"Yeh're ter go back up ter the castle. I told yeh, I don' wan' yeh watchin'. An' yeh shouldn' be down here anyway... If Weasley an' Weasley catch yeh out without permission, Ron, yeh'll be in big trouble."

Silent tears were now streaming down Ron's face, but she hid them from Weasley, bustling around making tea. Then, as she picked up the milk bottle to pour some into the jug, she let out a shriek.

"Ron, I don't believe it ­­ it's Ron!"

Ron gaped at her.

"What are you talking about?"

Ron carried the milk jug over to the table and turned it upside down. With a frantic squeak, and much scrambling to get back inside,

Ron the rat came sliding out onto the table.

"Ron!" said Ron blankly. "Ron, what are you doing here?"

He grabbed the struggling rat and held him up to the light. Ron

looked dreadful. He was thinner than ever, large tufts of hair had fallen out leaving wide bald patches, and he writhed in Ron's hands as though desperate to free himself "It's okay, Ron!" said Ron. "No cats! There's nothing here to hurt you!"

Weasley suddenly stood up, his eyes fixed on the window. His normally ruddy face had gone the color of parchment.

"They're comin'...."

Ron, Ron, and Ron whipped around. A group of men was walking down the distant castle steps. In front was Ron Weasley, his silver beard gleaming in the dying sun. Next to him trotted Ron Weasley.

Behind them came the feeble old Committee member and the executioner,

Weasley.

"Yeh gotta go," said Weasley. Every inch of him was trembling. "They mustn' find yeh here.... Go now..."

Ron stuffed Ron into his pocket and Ron picked up the cloak.

"I'll let yeh out the back way," said Weasley.

They followed him to the door into his back garden. Ron felt strangely unreal, and even more so when he saw Ron a few yards away, tethered to a tree behind Weasley's Pumpkin patch. Ron seemed to know something was happening. He turned his sharp head from side to side and pawed the ground nervously.

"It's okay, Beaky," said Weasley softly. "It's okay..." He turned to Ron, Ron, and Ron. "Go on," he said. "Get goin'."

But they didn't move.

"Weasley, we can't ­­"

"We'll tell them what really happened ­­"

"They can't kill him ­­"

 "Go!" said Weasley fiercely. "It's bad enough without you lot in trouble an' all!"

They had no choice. As Ron threw the cloak over Ron and Ron, they heard voices at the front of the cabin. Weasley looked at the place where they had just vanished from sight.

"Go quick," he said hoarsely. "Don' listen...."

And he strode back into his cabin as someone knocked at the front door.

Slowly, in a kind of horrified trance, Ron, Ron, and Ron set off silently around Weasley's house. As they reached the other side, the front door closed with a sharp snap.

"Please, let's hurry," Ron whispered. "I can't stand it, I can't bear it...."

They started up the sloping lawn toward the castle. The sun was sinking fast now; the sky had turned to a clear, purple­tinged grey, but to the west there was a ruby­red glow.

Ron stopped dead.

"Oh, please, Ron," Ron began.

"It's Ron ­­ he won't ­­ stay put ­­"

Ron was bent over, trying to keep Ron in his pocket, but the rat was going berserk; squeaking madly, twisting and flailing, trying to sink his teeth into Ron's hand.

"Ron, it's me, you idiot, it's Ron," Ron hissed.

They heard a door open behind them and men's voices.

"Oh, Ron, please let's move, they're going to do it!" Ron breathed.

"Okay ­­ Ron, stay put ­­"

 They walked forward; Ron, like Ron, was trying not to listen to the rumble of voices behind them. Ron stopped again.

"I can't hold him ­­ Ron, shut up, everyone'll hear us ­­"

The rat was squealing wildly, but not loudly enough to cover up the sounds drifting from Weasley's garden. There was a jumble of indistinct male voices, a silence, and then, without warning, the unmistakable swish and thud of an axe.

Ron swayed on the spot.

"They did it!" she whispered to Ron. "I d ­­ don't believe it ­­ they did it!"

 CHAPTER SEVENTEEN CAT, RAT, AND DOG

Ron's mind had gone blank with shock. The three of them stood transfixed with horror under the Invisibility Cloak. The very last rays of the setting sun were casting a bloody light over the long­ shadowed grounds. Then, behind them, they heard a wild howling.

"Weasley," Ron muttered. Without thinking about what he was doing, he made to turn back, but both Ron and Ron seized his arms.

"We can't," said Ron, who was paper­white. "He'll be in worse trouble if they know we've been to see him...."

Ron's breathing was shallow and uneven.

"How ­­ could ­­ they?" she choked. "How could they?"

"Come on," said Ron, whose teeth seemed to be chattering.

They set off back toward the castle, walking slowly to keep themselves hidden under the cloak. The light was fading fast now.

 By the time they reached open ground, darkness was settling like a spell around them.

"Ron, keep still," Ron hissed, clamping his hand over his chest.

The rat was wriggling madly. Ron came to a sudden halt, trying to force Ron deeper into his pocket. "What's the matter with you, You stupid rat? Stay still ­­ OUCH! He bit me!"

"Ron, be quiet!" Ron whispered urgently. "Weasley'll be out here in a minute ­­"

"He won't ­­ stay ­­ put ­­"

Ron was plainly terrified. He was writhing with all his might,

trying to break free of Ron's grip.

"What's the matter with him?"

But Ron had just seen ­­ stinking toward them, his body low to the ground, wide yellow eyes glinting eerily in the darkness ­­ Ron.

Whether he could see them or was following the sound of Ron's squeaks, Ron couldn't tell.

"Ron!" Ron moaned. "No, go away, Ron! Go away!"

But the cat was getting nearer ­­ "Ron ­­ NO!"

Too late ­­ the rat had slipped between Ron's clutching fingers, hit the ground, and scampered away. In one bound, Ron sprang after him,

and before Ron or Ron could stop him, Ron had thrown the Invisibility Cloak off himself and pelted away into the darkness.

"Ron!" Ron moaned.

She and Ron looked at each other, then followed at a sprint; it ""as impossible to run full out under the cloak; they pulled it off and it streamed behind them like a banner as they hurtled after Ron; they could hear his feet thundering along ahead and his shouts at Ron.

 "Get away from him ­­ get away ­­ Ron, come here ­­"

There was a loud thud.

"Gotcha! Get off, you stinking cat ­­"

Ron and Ron almost fell over Ron; they skidded to a stop right in front of him. He was sprawled on the ground, but Ron was back in his pocket; he had both hands held tight over the quivering lump.

"Ron ­­ come on back under the cloak ­­" Ron panted. "Weasley the Minister ­­ they'll be coming back out in a minute ­­"

But before they could cover themselves again, before they could even catch their breath, they heard the soft pounding of gigantic paws....

Something was bounding toward them, quiet as a shadow ­­ an enormous,

pale­eyed, jet­black dog.

Ron reached for his wand, but too late ­­ the dog had made an enormous leap and the front paws hit him on the chest; he keeled over backward in a whirl of hair; he felt its hot breath, saw inch­ long teeth ­ But the force of its leap had carried it too far; it rolled off him.

Dazed, feeling as though his ribs were broken, Ron tried to stand up; he could hear it growling as it skidded around for a new attack.

Ron was on his feet. As the dog sprang back toward them he pushed Ron aside; the dog's jaws fastened instead around Ron's outstretched arm.

Ron lunged forward, he seized a handful of the brute's hair, but it was dragging Ron away as easily as though he were a rag doll ­­ Then, out of nowhere, something hit Ron so hard across the face he was knocked off his feet again. He heard Ron shriek with pain and fall too.

Ron groped for his wand, blinking blood out of his eyes "Lumos!"he whispered.

 The wandlight showed him the trunk of a thick tree; they had chased Ron into the shadow of the Whomping Willow and its branches were creaking as though in a high wind, whipping backward and forward to stop them going nearer.

And there, at the base of the trunk, was the dog, dragging Ron backward into a large gap in the roots ­­ Ron was fighting furiously, but his head and torso were slipping out of sight ­­ "Ron!" Ron shouted, trying to follow, but a heavy branch whipped lethally through the air and he was forced backward again.

All they could see now was one of Ron's legs, which he had hooked around a root in an effort to stop the dog from pulling him farther underground ­­ but a horrible crack cut the air like a gunshot; Ron's leg had broken, and a moment later, his foot vanished from sight.

"Ron ­­ we've got to go for help ­­" Ron gasped; she was bleeding too; the Willow had cut her across the shoulder.

"No! That thing's big enough to eat him; we haven't got time ­­"

"Ron ­­ we're never going to get through without help ­­"

Another branch whipped down at them, twigs clenched like knuckles.

"If that dog can get in, we can," Ron panted, darting here and there,

trying to find a way through the vicious, swishing branches, but he couldn't get an inch nearer to the tree roots without being in range of the tree's blows.

"Oh, help, help," Ron whispered frantically, dancing U._ certainly on the spot, "Please..."

Ron darted forward. He slithered between the battering branches like a snake and placed his front paws upon a knot on the trunk.

Abruptly, as though the tree had been turned to marble, it stopped moving. Not a leaf twitched or shook.

 "Ron!" Ron whispered uncertainly. She now grasped Ron's arm painfully hard. "How did he know ­­?"

"He's friends with that dog," said Ron grimly. "I've seen them together. Come on ­­ and keep your wand out ­­"

They covered the distance to the trunk in seconds, but before they had reached the gap in the roots, Ron had slid into it with a flick of his bottlebrush tail. Ron went next; he crawled forward, headfirst,

and slid down an earthy slope to the bottom of a very low tunnel.

Ron was a little way along, his eyes flashing in the light from Ron's wand. Seconds later, Ron slithered down beside him.

"Where's Ron?" she whispered in a terrified voice.

"This way," said Ron, setting off, bent­backed, after Ron.

"Where does this tunnel come out?" Ron asked breathlessly from behind him.

"I don't know... It's marked on the Marauder's Map but Ron and Ron said no one's ever gotten into it.... It goes off the edge of the map,

but it looked like it was heading for Hogsmeade..."

They moved as fast as they could, bent almost double; ahead of them,

Ron's tail bobbed in and out of view. On and on went the passage; it felt at least as long as the one to Honeydukes.... All Ron could think of was Ron and what the enormous dog might be doing to him.... He was drawing breath in sharp, painful gasps, running at a crouch....

And then the tunnel began to rise; moments later it twisted, and Ron had gone. instead, Ron could see a patch of dim light through a small opening.

He and Ron paused, gasping for breath, edging forward. Both raised their wands to see what lay beyond.

It was a room, a very disordered, dusty room. Paper was peeling from the walls; there were stains all over the floor; every piece of furniture

was broken as though somebody had smashed it. The windows were all boarded up.

Ron glanced at Ron, who looked very frightened but nodded.

Ron pulled himself out of the hole, staring around. The room was deserted, but a door to their right stood open, leading to a shadowy hallway. Ron suddenly grabbed Ron's arm again. Her wide eyes were traveling around the boarded windows.

"Ron," she whispered, "I think we're in the Shrieking Shack."

Ron looked around. His eyes fell on a wooden chair near them. Large chunks had been torn out of it; one of the legs had been ripped off entirely.

"Ghosts didn't do that," he said slowly.

At that moment, there was a creak overhead. Something had Moved upstairs. Both of them looked up at the ceiling. Ron's grip on Ron's arm was so tight he was losing feeling in­his fingers. He raised his eyebrows at her; she nodded again and let go.

Quietly as they could, they crept out into the hall and UP the crumbling staircase. Everything was covered in a thick layer of dust except the floor, where a wide shiny stripe had been made by something being dragged upstairs.

They reached the dark landing.

"Nox," they whispered together, and the lights at the end of their wands went out. Only one door was open. As they crept toward it, they heard movement from behind it; a low moan, and then a deep, loud purring. They exchanged a last look, a last nod.

Wand held tightly before him, Ron kicked the door wide open.

On a magnificent four­poster bed with dusty hangings lay Ron,

purring loudly at the sight of them. On the floor beside him, clutching his leg, which stuck out at a strange angle, was Ron.

 Ron and Ron dashed across to him.

"Ron ­­ are you okay?"

"Where's the dog?"

"Not a dog," Ron moaned. His teeth were gritted with pain. "Ron, it's a trap ­­"

"What ­­"

"He's the dog... he's an Animagus."

Ron was staring over Ron's shoulder. Ron wheeled around. With a snap, the man in the shadows closed the door behind them.

A mass of filthy, matted hair hung to his elbows. If eyes hadn't been shining out of the deep, dark sockets, he might have been a corpse. The waxy skin was stretched so tightly over the bones of his face, it looked like a skull. His yellow teeth were bared in a grin. It was Ron Weasley.

"Expelliarmus!"he croaked, pointing Ron's wand at them.

Ron's and Ron's wands shot out of their hands, high in the air,

and Weasley caught them. Then he took a step closer. His eyes were fixed on Ron.

"I thought you'd come and help your friend," he said hoarsely.

His voice sounded as though he had long since lost the habit of using it. "Your father would have done the same for me. Brave of you) not to run for a teacher. I'm grateful... it will make everything much easier...."

The taunt about his father rang in Ron's ears as though Weasley had bellowed it. A boiling hate erupted in Ron's chest, leaving no place for fear. For the first time in his life, he wanted his wand back in his hand, not to defend himself, but to attack... to kill. Without knowing

what he was doing, he started forward, but there was a sudden movement on either side of him and two pairs of hands grabbed him and held him back.... "No, Ron!" Ron gasped in a petrified whisper; Ron,

however, spoke to Weasley.

"If you want to kill Ron, you'll have to kill us too!" he said fiercely, though the effort of standing upright was draining him of still more color, and he swayed slightly as he spoke.

Something flickered in Weasley's shadowed eyes.

"Lie down," he said quietly to Ron. "You will damage that leg even more."

"Did you hear me?" Ron said weakly, though he was clinging painfully to Ron to stay upright. "You'll have to kill all three of us!"

"There'll be only one murder here tonight," said Brack, and his grin widened.

"Why's that?" Ron spat, trying to wrench himself free of Ron, and Ron. "Didn't care last time, did you? Didn't mind slaughtering all those Muggles to get at Weasley... What's the matter, gone soft in Azkaban?"

"Ron!" Ron whimpered. "Be quiet!"

"HE KILLED MY MUM AND DAD!" Ron roared, and with a huge effort he broke free of Ron's and Ron's restraint and lunged forward ­ He had forgotten about magic ­­ he had forgotten that he was short and skinny and thirteen, whereas Weasley was a tall, full­grown man ­­ all Ron knew was that he wanted to hurt Weasley as badly as he could and that he didn't care how much he got hurt in return ­­ Perhaps it was the shock of Ron doing something so stupid, but Weasley didn't raise the wands in time ­­ one of Ron's hands fastened over his wasted wrist, forcing the wand tips away; the knuckles of Ron's other hand collided with the side of Weasley's head and they fell, backward,

into the wall ­

Ron was screaming; Ron was yelling; there was a blinding flash as the wands in Weasley's hand sent a jet of sparks into the air that missed Ron's face by inches; Ron felt the shrunken arm under his fingers twisting madly, but he clung on, his other hand punching every part of Weasley it could find.

But Weasley's free hand had found Ron's throat "No," he hissed, "I've waited too long ­­"

The fingers tightened, Ron choked, his glasses askew.

Then he saw Ron's foot swing out of nowhere. Weasley let go of Ron with a grunt of pain; Ron had thrown himself on Weasley's wand hand and Ron heard a faint clatter ­­ He fought free of the tangle of bodies and saw his own wand rolling across the floor; he threw himself toward it but "Argh!"

Ron had joined the fray; both sets of front claws had sunk themselves deep into Ron's arm; Ron threw him off, but Ron now darted toward Ron's wand ­­ "NO YOU DON'T!" roared Ron, and he aimed a kick at Ron that made the cat leap aside, spitting; Ron snatched up his wand and turned ­ "Get out of the way!" he shouted at Ron and Ron.

They didn't need telling twice. Ron, gasping for breath, her lip bleeding, scrambled aside, snatching up her and Ron's wands. Ron crawled to the four­poster and collapsed onto it, panting, his white face now tinged with green, both hands clutching his broken leg.

Weasley was sprawled at the bottom of the wall. His thin chest rose and fell rapidly as he watched Ron walking slowly nearer, his wand pointing straight at Weasley's heart.

 "Going to kill me, Ron?" he whispered.

Ron stopped right above him, his wand still pointing at Weasley's chest,

looking down at him. A livid bruise was rising around Weasley's left eye and his nose was bleeding.

"You killed my parents," said Ron, his voice shaking slightly, but his wand hand quite steady.

Weasley stared up at him out of those sunken eyes.

"I don't deny it," he said very quietly. "But if you knew the whole story."

"The whole story?" Ron repeated, a furious pounding in his ears. "You sold them to Weasley. That's all I need to know."

"You've got to listen to me," Weasley said, and there was a note of urgency in his voice now. "You'll regret it if you don't.... You don't understand...."

"I understand a lot better than you think," said Ron, and his voice shook more than ever. "You never heard her, did you? My mum... trying to stop Weasley killing me... and you did that... you did it...."

Before either of them could say another word, something ginger streaked past Ron; Ron leapt onto Weasley's chest and settled himself there, right over Weasley's heart. Weasley blinked and looked down at the cat.

"Get off," he murmured, trying to push Ron off him.

But Ron sank his claws into Weasley's robes and wouldn't shift. He turned his ugly, squashed face to Ron and looked up at him with those great yellow eyes. To his right, Ron gave a dry sob.

Ron stared down at Weasley and Ron, his grip tightening on the wand. So what if he had to kill the cat too? It was in league with Weasley.... If it was prepared to die, trying to protect Weasley, that

wasn't Ron's business.... If Weasley wanted to save it, that only proved he cared more for Ron than for Ron's parents....

Ron raised the wand. Now was the moment to do it. Now was the moment to avenge his mother and father. He was going to kill Weasley. He had to kill Weasley. This was his chance....

The seconds lengthened. And still Ron stood frozen there, wand poised,

Weasley staring up at him, Ron on his chest. Ron's ragged breathing came from near the bed; Ron was quite silent.

And then came a new sound ­ Muffled footsteps were echoing up through the floor ­­ someone was moving downstairs.

"WE'RE UP HERE!" Ron screamed suddenly. "WE'RE UP HERE ­­ Ron Weasley ­ QUICK!"

Weasley made a startled movement that almost dislodged Ron; Ron gripped his wand convulsively ­­ Do it now! said a voice in his head ­­ but the footsteps were thundering up the stairs and Ron still hadn't done it.

The door of the room burst open in a shower of red sparks and Ron wheeled around as Professor Weasley came hurtling into the room, his face bloodless, his wand raised and ready. His eyes flickered over Ron, lying on the floor, over Ron, cowering next to the door, to Ron,

standing there with his wand covering Weasley, and then to Weasley himself,

crumpled and bleeding at Ron's feet.

"Expelliarmus!" Weasley shouted.

Ron's wand flew once more out of his hand; so did the two Ron was holding. Weasley caught them all deftly, then moved into the room, staring at Weasley, who still had Ron lying Protectively across his chest.

Ron stood there, feeling suddenly empty. He hadn't done it. His nerve had failed him. Weasley was going to be handed back to the dementors.

 Then Weasley spoke, in a very tense voice.

"Where is he, Ron?"

Ron looked quickly at Weasley. He didn't understannd what Weasley meant.

Who was Weasley talking about? He turned to look at Weasley again.

Weasley's face was quite expressionless. For a few seconds, he didn't move at all. Then, very slowly, he raised his empty hand and pointed straight at Ron. Mystified, Ron glanced around at Ron, who looked bewildered.

"But then..." Weasley muttered, staring at Weasley so intently it seemed he was trying to read his mind, "... why hasn't he shown himself before now? Unless" ­­ Weasley's eyes suddenly widened, as though he was seeing something beyond Weasley, something none of the rest could see, "­­ unless he was the one... unless you switched... without telling me?"

Very slowly, his sunken gaze never leaving Weasley's face, Weasley nodded.

"Professor," Ron interrupted loudly, "what's going on ­­?"

But he never finished the question, because what he saw made his voice die in his throat. Weasley was lowering his wand, gazing fixed at Weasley.

The Professor walked to Weasley's side, seized his hand, pulled him to his feet so that Ron fell to the floor, and embraced Weasley like a brother.

Ron felt as though the bottom had dropped out of his stomach.

"DON'T BELIEVE IT!" Ron screamed.

Weasley let go of Weasley and turned to her. She had raised herself off the floor and was pointing at Weasley, wild­eyed. "You ­­ you ­­"

"Ron ­­"

"­­ you and him!"

"Ron, calm down ­­"

 "I didn't tell anyone!" Ron shrieked. "I've been covering up for you ­­"

"Ron, listen to me, please'" Weasley shouted. "I can explain ­­"

Ron could feel himself shaking, not with fear, but with a fresh wave of fury.

"I trusted you," he shouted at Weasley, his voice wavering, out of control, "and all the time you've been his friend!"

"You're wrong," said Weasley. "I haven't been Ron's friend, but I am now ­­ Let me explain...."

"NO!" Ron screamed. "Ron, don't trust him, he's been helping Weasley get into the castle, he wants you dead too ­­ he's a werewolf!"

There was a ringing silence. Everyone's eyes were now on Weasley, who looked remarkably calm, though rather pale.

"Not at all up to your usual standard, Ron," he said. "Only one out of three, I'm afraid. I have not been helping Ron get into the castle and I certainly don't want Ron dead. An odd shiver passed over his face. "But I won't deny that I am a werewolf."

Ron made a valiant effort to get up again but fell back with a whimper of pain. Weasley made toward him, looking concerned, but Ron gasped, "Get away ftom me, werewolf!"

Weasley stopped dead. Then, with an obvious effort, he turned to Ron and said, "How long have you known?"

"Ages," Ron whispered. "Since I did Professor Weasley's essay..."

"He'll be delighted," said Weasley coolly. "He assigned that essay hoping someone would realize what my symptoms meant.... Did you check the lunar chart and realize that I was always ill at the full moon? Or did you realize that the boggart changed into the moon when it saw me?"

 "Both," Ron said quietly.

Weasley forced a laugh.

"You're the cleverest witch of your age I've ever met, Ron."

"I'm not," Ron whispered. "If I'd been a bit cleverer, I'd have told everyone what you are!"

"But they already know," said Weasley. "At least, the staff do."

"Weasley hired you when he knew you were a werewolf. Ron gasped. "Is he mad?"

"Some of the staff thought so," said Weasley. "He had to work very hard to convince certain teachers that I'm trustworthy ­­"

"AND HE WAS WRONG!" Ron yelled. "YOUVE BEEN HELPING HIM ALL THE TIME!"

He was pointing at Weasley, who suddenly crossed to the four­poster bed and sank onto it, his face hidden in one shaking hand. Ron leapt up beside him and stepped onto his lap, purring. Ron edged away from both of them, dragging his leg.

I have not been helping Ron," said Weasley. "If you'll give me a chance, I'll explain. Look ­­"

He separated Ron's, Ron's and Ron's wands and threw each back to its owner; Ron caught his, stunned.

There, said Weasley, sticking his own wand back into his belt "You're armed, we're not. Now will you listen?"

Ron didn't know what to think. Was it a trick?

"If you haven't been helping him," he said, with a furious glance at Weasley, "how did you know he was here?"

"The map," said Weasley. "The Marauder's Map. I was in my office examining it ­­"

 "You know how to work it?" Ron said suspiciously.

"Of course I know how to work it," said Weasley, waving his hand impatiently. "I helped write it. I'm Moony ­­ that was my friends' nickname for me at school."

"You wrote ­­?"

"The important thing is, I was watching it carefully this evening,

because I had an idea that you, Ron, and Ron might try and sneak out of the castle to visit Weasley before his hippogriff was executed.

And I was right, wasn't I"

He had started to pace up and down, looking at them. Little patches of dust rose at his feet.

"You might have been wearing your father's old cloak, Ron­­"

"How d'you know about the cloak?"

"The number of times I saw Ron disappearing under it...," said Weasley,

waving an impatient hand again. "The point is, even if you're wearing an Invisibility Cloak, you still show up on the Marauder's Map. I watched you cross the grounds and enter Weasley's hut. Twenty minutes later, you left Weasley, and set off back toward the castle. But you were now accompanied by somebody else."

"What?" said Ron. "No, we weren't!"

I couldn't believe my eyes," said Weasley, still pacing, and ignoring Ron's interruption. "I thought the map must be malfunctioning. How could he be with you?" "No one was with us!" said Ron.

"And then I saw another dot, moving fast toward you, labeled Ron Weasley.... I saw him collide with you; I watched as he pulled two of you into the Whomping Willow ­­"

"One of us!" Ron said angrily.

 "No, Ron," said Weasley. "Two of you."

He had stopped his pacing, his eyes moving over Ron.

"Do you think I could have a look at the rat?" he said evenly.

"What?" said Ron. "What's Ron got to do with it?"

"Everything," said Weasley. "Could I see him, please?"

Ron hesitated, then put a hand inside his robes. Ron emerged,

thrashing desperately; Ron had to seize his long bald tail to stop him escaping. Ron stood up on Weasley's leg and made a soft hissing noise.

Weasley moved closer to Ron. He seemed to be holding his breath as he gazed intently at Ron.

"What?" Ron said again, holding Ron close to him, looking scared.

"What's my rat got to do with anything?"

"That's not a rat," croaked Ron Weasley suddenly.

"What d'you mean ­­ of course he's a rat ­­"

"No, he's not," said Weasley quietly. "He's a wizard."

"An Animagus," said Weasley, "by the name of Ron Weasley."

 CHAPTER EIGHTEEN MOONY, WORMTAIL, PADDFOOT, AND PRONGS

It took a few seconds for the absurdity of this statement to sink in.

Then Ron voiced what Ron was thinking.

"You're both mental."

"Ridiculous!" said Ron faintly.

 "Ron Weasley's dead!" said Ron. "He killed him twelve years ago!"

He pointed at Weasley, whose face twitched convulsively.

"I meant to," he growled, his yellow teeth bared, "but little Ron got the better of me... not this time, though!"

And Ron was thrown to the floor as Weasley lunged at Ron; Ron yelled with pain as Weasley's weight fell on his broken leg.

."Ron, NO!" Weasley yelled, launching himself forwards and dragging Weasley away from Ron again, "WAIT! You can't do it just like that ­­ they need to understand ­­ we've got to explain ­­"

"We can explain afterwards!" snarled Weasley, trying to throw Weasley off.

One hand was still clawing the air as it tried to reach Ron, who was squealing like a piglet, scratching Ron's face and neck as he tried to escape.

"They've ­­ got ­­ a ­­ right ­­ to ­­ know ­­ ­everything!" Weasley panted, still trying to restrain Weasley. "Ron's kept him as a pet! There are parts of it even I don't understand, and Ron ­­ you owe Ron the truth, Ron!"

Weasley stopped struggling, though his hollowed eyes were still fixed on Ron, who was clamped tightly under Ron's bitten, scratched, ad bleeding hands.

"All right, then," Weasley said, without taking his eyes off the rat.

"Tell them whatever you like. But make it quick, Ron. I want to commit the murder I was imprisoned for..."

"You're nutters, both of you," said Ron shakily, looking round at Ron and Ron for support. "I've had enough of this. I'm off."

He tried to heave himself up on his good leg, but Weasley raised his wand again, pointing it at Ron.

"You're going to hear me out, Ron," he said quietly. "Just keep a tight hold on Ron while you listen."

 "HE'S NOT Ron, HE'S Ron!" Ron yelled, trying to fore the rat back into his front pocket, but Ron was fighting to hard; Ron swayed and overbalanced, and Ron caught him am pushed him back down to the bed.

Then, ignoring Weasley, Ron turned to Weasley.

There were witnesses who saw Weasley die," he said. "A whole street full of them..."

"They didn't see what they thought they saw!" said Weasley savagely, still watching Ron struggling in Ron's hands.

"Everyone thought Ron killed Ron," said Weasley, nodding. "I believed it myself ­­ until I saw the map tonight. Because the Marauder's map never lies... Ron's alive. Ron's holding him, Ron."

Ron looked down at Ron, and as their eyes met, they agreed, silently:

Weasley and Weasley were both out of their minds. Their story made no sense whatsoever. How could Ron be Ron Weasley? Azkaban must have unhinged Weasley after all ­­ but why was Weasley playing along with him?

Then Ron spoke, in a trembling, would­be calm sort of voice, as though trying to will Professor Weasley to talk sensibly.

"But Professor Weasley... Ron can't be Weasley... it just can't be true, you know it can't..."

"Why can't it be true?" Weasley said calmly, as though they were in class,

and Ron had simply spotted a problem in an experiment with grindylows.

"Because... because people would know if Ron Weasley had been an Animagus. We did Animagi in class with Professor Weasley. And I looked them up when I did my homework ­­ the Ministry of Magic keeps tabs on witches and wizards who can become animals; there's a register showing what animal they become, and their markings and things... and I went and looked Professor Weasley up on the register, and there have been only seven Animagi this century, and Weasley's name wasn't on the list."

 Ron had barely had time to marvel inwardly at the effort Ron put into her homework, when Weasley started to laugh.

"Light again, Ron!" he said. "But the Ministry never knew that here used to be three unregistered Animagi running around Hogwarts."

"I you're going to tell them the story, get a move on, Ron," said Weasley, who was still watching Ron's every desperate move. "I've waited twelve years, I'm not going to wait much longer."

"All right... but you'll need to help me, Ron," said Weasley, I only know how it began..."

Weasley broke off. There had been a loud creak behind him. The bedroom door had opened of its own accord. All five of them stared at it. Then Weasley strode toward it and looked out into the landing.

"No one there..."

"This place is haunted!" said Ron.

"It's not," said Weasley, still looking at the door in a puzzled way. "The Shrieking Shack was never haunted.... The screams and howls the villagers used to hear were made by me."

He pushed his graying hair out of his eyes, thought for a moment then said, "That's where all of this starts ­­ with my becoming a werewolf,

None of this could have happened if I hadn't been bitter... and if I hadn't been so foolhardy..."

He looked sober and tired. Ron started to interrupt, but Ron, said,

"Shh!" She was watching Weasley very intently.

"I as a very small boy when I received the bite. My parents tried everything, but in those days there was no cure. The potion that Professor Weasley has been making for me is a very recent discovery. It makes me safe, you see. As long as I take it in the week, preceding the full moon, I keep my mind when I transform.... I'm able to curl up in my office, a harmless wolf, and wait for the moon to wane again.

 "Before the Wolfsbane Potion was discovered, however, I became a fully fledged monster once a month. It seemed impossible that I would be able to come to Hogwarts. Other parents weren't likely to want their children exposed to me.

"But then Weasley became Headmaster, and he was sympathetic. He said that as long as we took certain precautions, there was no reason I shouldn't come to school...." Weasley sighed, and looked directly at Ron. "I told you, months ago, that the Whomping Willow was planted the year I came to Hogwarts. The truth is that it was planted because I came to Hogwarts. This house" ­­ Weasley looked miserably around the room, ­­ "the tunnel that leads to it ­­ they were built for my use. Once a month, I was smuggled out of the castle, into this place, to transform.

The tree was placed at the tunnel mouth to stop anyone coming across me while I was dangerous."

Ron couldn't see where this story was going, but he was listening raptly all the same. The only sound apart from Weasley's voice was Ron's frightened squeaking.

"My transformations in those days were ­­ were terrible. It is very painful to turn into a werewolf. I was separated from humans to bite, so I bit and scratched myself instead. The villagers heard the noise and the screaming and thought they were hearing particularly violent spirits. Weasley encouraged the rumor.... Even now, when the house has been silent for years, the villagers don't dare approach it...."

"But apart from my transformations, I was happier than I had ever been in my life. For the first time ever, I had friends, three great friends.

Ron Weasley... Ron Weasley... and, of course, your father, Ron ­­ Ron Weasley."

"Now, my three friends could hardly fail to notice that I disappeared once a month. I made up all sorts of stories. I told them my mother was ill, and that I had to go home to see her... I was terrified they would desert me the moment they found out what I was. But of course, they,

like you, Ron, worked out the truth...."

"And they didn't desert me at all. Instead, they did something for me that would make my transformations not only bearable, but the best times

of my life. They became Animagi."

"My dad too?" said Ron, astounded.

"Yes, indeed," said Weasley. "It took them the best part of three years to work out how to do it. Your father and Ron here were the cleverest students in the school, and lucky they were, because the Animagus transformation can go horribly wrong ­­ one reason the Ministry keeps a close watch on those attempting to do it. Ron needed all the help he could get from Ron and Ron. Finally, in our fifth year, they managed it. They could each turn into a different animal at will."

"But how did that help you?" said Ron, sounding puzzled.

"They couldn't keep me company as humans, so they kept me company as animals," said Weasley. "A werewolf is only a danger to people. They sneaked out of the castle every month under Ron's Invisibility Cloak.

They transformed... Ron, as the smallest, could slip beneath the Willow's attacking branches and touch the knot that freezes it. They would then slip down the tunnel and join me. Under their influence, I became less dangerous. My body was still wolfish, but my mind seemed to become less so while I was with them."

"Hurry up, Ron," snarled Weasley, who was still watching Ron with a horrible sort of hunger on his face.

"I'm getting there, Ron, I'm getting there... well, highly exciting possibilities were open to us now that we could all transform. Soon we were leaving the Shrieking Shack and roaming the school grounds and the village by night. Ron and Ron transformed into such large animals,

they were able to keep a werewolf in check. I doubt whether any Hogwarts students ever found out more about the Hogwarts grounds and Hogsmeade than we did.... And that's how we came to write the Marauder's Map, and sign it with our nicknames. Ron is Padfoot. Ron is Wormtail. Ron was Prongs."

"What sort of animal ­­?" Ron began, but Ron cut him off.

"That was still really dangerous! Running around in the dark with a werewolf! What if you'd given the others the slip, and bitten somebody?"

 "A thought that still haunts me," said Weasley heavily. "And there were near misses, many of them. We laughed about them afterwards. We were young, thoughtless ­­ carried away with our own cleverness."

I sometimes felt guilty about betraying Weasley's trust, of course...

he had admitted me to Hogwarts when no other headmaster would have done so, and he had no idea I was breaking the rules he had set down for my own and others' safety. He never knew I had led three fellow students into becoming Animagi illegally. But I always managed to forget my guilty feelings every time we sat down to plan our next month's adventure. And I haven't changed..."

Weasley's face had hardened, and there was self­disgust in his voice. "All this year, I have been battling with myself, wondering whether I should tell Weasley that Ron was an Animagus. But I didn't do it. Why?

Because I was too cowardly. It would have meant admitting that I'd betrayed his trust while I was at school, admitting that I'd led others along with me... and Weasley's trust has meant everything to me. He let me into Hogwarts as a boy, and he gave me a job when I have been shunned all my adult life, unable to find paid work because of what I am. And so I convinced myself that Ron was getting into the school using dark arts he learned from Weasley, that being an Animagus had nothing to do with it... so, in a way, Weasley's been right about me all along."

"Weasley?" said Weasley harshly, taking his eyes off Ron; for the first time in minutes and looking up at Weasley. "What's Weasley got to do with it?"

"He's here, Ron," said Weasley heavily. "He's teaching here as well."

He looked up at Ron, Ron, and Ron.

"Professor Weasley was at school with us. He fought very hard against my appointment to the Defense Against the Dark Arts job. He has been telling Weasley A year that I am not to be trusted. He has his reasons... you see, Ron here played a trick on him which nearly killed him, a trick which involved me ­­"

Weasley made a derisive noise.

 "It served him right," he sneered. "Sneaking around, trying to find out what we were up to... hoping he could get us expelled...."

"Ron was very interested in where I went every month." Weasley told Ron, Ron, and Ron. "We were in the same year, you know, and we ­­ er ­­ didn't like each other very much. He especially disliked Ron.

Jealous, I think, of Ron's talent on the Quidditch field... anyway Weasley had seen me crossing the grounds with Ron Weasley one evening as she led me toward the Whomping Willow to transform. Ron thought it would be ­­ er ­­ amusing, to tell Weasley all he had to do was prod the knot on the tree trunk with a long stick, and he'd be able to get in after me. Well, of course, Weasley tried it ­­ if he'd got as far as this house, he'd have met a fully grown werewolf ­­ but your father, who'd heard what Ron had done, went after Weasley and pulled him back, at great risk to his life... Weasley glimpsed me, though, at the end of the tunnel. He was forbidden by Weasley to tell anybody, but from that time on he knew what I was...."

"So that's why Weasley doesn't like you," said Ron slowly, "because he thought you were in on the joke?"

"That's right," sneered a cold voice from the wall behind Weasley.

Ron Weasley was pulling off the Invisibility Cloak, his wand pointing,

directly at Weasley.

 CHAPTER NINETEEN THE SERVANT OF LORD Weasley

Ron screamed. Weasley leapt to his feet. Ron felt as though he'd received a huge electric shock.

"I found this at the base of the Whomping Willow," said Weasley, throwing the cloak aside, careful to keep this wand pointing directly at Weasley's chest. "Very useful, Weasley, I thank you...."

Weasley was slightly breathless, but his face was full of suppressed triumph. "You're wondering, perhaps, how I knew you were here?" he said,

 his eyes glittering. "I've just been to your office, Weasley. You forgot to take your potion tonight, so I took a gobletful along. And very lucky I did... lucky for me, I mean. Lying on your desk was a certain map. One glance at it told me all I needed to know. I saw you running along this passageway and out of sight."

"Ron ­­" Weasley began, but Weasley overrode him.

"I've told the headmaster again and again that you're helping your old friend Weasley into the castle, Weasley, and here's the proof. Not even I dreamed you would have the nerve to use this old place as your hideout ­­"

"Ron, you're making a mistake," said Weasley urgently. "You haven't heard everything ­­ I can explain ­­ Ron is not here to kill Ron ­­"

"Two more for Azkaban tonight," said Weasley, his eyes now gleaming fanatically. "I shall be interested to see how Weasley takes this....

He was quite convinced you were harmless, you know, Weasley... a tame werewolf ­­"

"You fool," said Weasley softly. "Is a schoolboy grudge worth putting an innocent man back inside Azkaban?"

BANG! Thin, snakelike cords burst from the end of Weasley's wand and twisted themselves around Weasley's mouth, wrists, and ankles; he overbalanced and fell to the floor, unable to move. With a roar of rage,

Weasley started toward Weasley, but Weasley pointed his wand straight between Weasley's eyes.

"Give me a reason," he whispered. "Give me a reason to do it, and I swear I will."

Weasley stopped dead. It would have been impossible to say which face showed more hatred.

Ron stood there, paralyzed, not knowing what to do or whom to believe.

He glanced around at Ron and Ron. Ron looked just as confused as he did, still fighting to keep hold on the struggling Ron. Ron,

 however, took an uncertain step toward Weasley and said, in a very breathless voice, "Professor Weasley ­­ it it wouldn't hurt to hear what they've got to say, w ­­ would it?"

"Miss Weasley, you are already facing suspension from this school,"

Weasley spat. "You, Weasley, and Weasley are out­of­bounds, in the company of a convicted murderer and a werewolf. For once in your life, hold your tongue."

"But if ­­ if there was a mistake ­­"

"KEEP QUIET, YOU STUPID GIRL!" Weasley shouted, looking suddenly quite deranged. "DON'T TALK ABOUT WHAT YOU DON'T UNDERRonD!" A few sparks shot out of the end of his wand, which was still pointed at Weasley's face. Ron fell silent.

"Vengeance is very sweet," Weasley breathed at Weasley. "How I hoped I would be the one to catch you...."

"The joke's on you again, Ron," Weasley snarled. "As long as this boy brings his rat up to the castle" ­­ he jerked his head at Ron ­­ "I'll come quietly...."

"Up to the castle?" said Weasley silkily. "I don't think we need to go that far. All I have to do is call the dementors once we get out of the Willow. They'll be very pleased to see you, Weasley... pleased enough to give you a little kiss, I daresay... I ­­"

What little color there was in Weasleys face left it.

"You ­you've got to hear me out," he croaked. "The rat ­­ look at the rat ­­"

But there was a mad glint in Weasley's eyes that Ron had never seen before. He seemed beyond reason.

"Come on, all of you," he said. He clicked his fingers, and the ends of the cords that bound Weasley flew to his hands. "I'll drag the werewolf.

Perhaps the dementors will have a kiss for him too ­­"

 Before he knew what he was doing, Ron had crossed the room in three strides and blocked the door.

"Get out of the way, Weasley, you're in enough trouble already," snarled Weasley. "If I hadn't been here to save your skin ­­"

"Professor Weasley could have killed me about a hundred times this year,"

Ron said. "I've been alone with him loads of times, having defense lessons against the dementors. If he was helping Weasley, why didn't he just finish me off then?"

"Don't ask me to fathom the way a werewolf's mind works," hissed Weasley.

"Get out of the way, Weasley."

"YOURE PATHETIC!" Ron yelled. "JUST BECAUSE THEY MADE A FOOL OF YOU AT SRonOL YOU WON'T EVEN LISTEN ­­"

"SILENCE! I WILL NOT BE SPOKEN TO LIKE THAT!" Weasley shrieked,

looking madder than ever. "Like father, like son, Weasley! I have just saved your neck; you should be thanking me on bended knee! You would have been well served if he'd killed you! You'd have died like your father, too arrogant to believe you might be mistaken in Weasley ­­ now get out of the way, or I will make you. GET OUT OF THE WAY, Weasley!"

Ron made up his mind in a split second. Before Weasley could take even one step toward him, he had raised his wand.

"Expelliarmus!" he yelled ­­ except that his wasn't the only voice that shouted. There was a blast that made the door rattle on its hinges; Weasley was lifted off his feet and slammed into the wall, then slid down it to the floor, a trickle of blood oozing from under his hair. He had been knocked out.

Ron looked around. Both Ron and Ron had tried to disarm Weasley at exactly the same moment. Weasley's wand soared in a high arc and landed on the bed next to Ron.

 "You shouldn't have done that," said Weasley, looking at Ron.

"You should have left him to me...."

Ron avoided Weasley's eyes. He wasn't sure, even now, that he'd done the right thing.

"We attacked a teacher... We attacked a teacher..." Ron whimpered,

staring at the lifeless Weasley with frightened eyes. "Oh, we're going to be in so much trouble ­­"

Weasley was struggling against his bonds. Weasley bent down quickly and untied him. Weasley straightened up, rubbing his arms where the ropes had cut into them.

"Thank you, Ron," he said.

"I'm still not saying I believe you," he told Weasley.

"Then it's time we offered you some proof," said Weasley. "You, boy ­­ give me Ron, please. Now."

Ron clutched Ron closer to his chest.

"Come off it," he said weakly. "Are you trying to say he broke out of Azkaban just to get his hands on Ron? I mean..." He looked up at Ron and Ron for support, "Okay, say Weasley could turn into a rat ­­ there are millions of rats ­­ how's he supposed to know which one he's after if he was locked up in Azkaban?"

"You know, Ron, that's a fair question," said Weasley, turning to Weasley and frowning slightly. "How did you find out where he was?"

Weasley put one of his clawlike hands inside his robes and took out a crumpled piece of paper, which he smoothed flat and held out to show the others.

It was the photograph of Ron and his family that had appeared in the Daily Prophet the previous summer, and there, on Ron's shoulder, was Ron.

 "How did you get this?" Weasley asked Weasley, thunderstruck.

"Weasley," said Weasley. "When he came to inspect Azkaban last year, he gave me his paper. And there was Ron, on the front page on this boy's shoulder... I knew him at once... how many times had I seen him transform? And the caption said the boy would be going back to Hogwarts... to where Ron was...

"My God," said Weasley softly, staring from Ron to the picture in the paper and back again. "His front paw..."

"What about it?" said Ron defiantly.

"He's got a toe missing," said Weasley.

"Of course," Weasley breathed. "So simple... so brilliant... he cut it off himself?"

"Just before he transformed," said Weasley. "When I cornered him, he yelled for the whole street to hear that I'd betrayed Ron and Ron.

Then, before I could curse him, he blew apart the street with the wand behind his back, killed everyone within twenty feet of himself ­­ and sped down into the sewer with the other rats...."

"Didn't you ever hear, Ron?" said Weasley. "The biggest bit of Ron they found was his finger."

"Look, Ron probably had a fight with another rat or something! He's been in my family for ages, right ­­"

"Twelve years, in fact," said Weasley. "Didn't you ever wonder why he was living so long?"

"We ­­ we've been taking good care of him!" said Ron.

"Not looking too good at the moment, though, is he?" said Weasley. "I'd guess he's been losing weight ever since he heard Ron was on the loose again...."

 "He's been scared of that mad cat!" said Ron, nodding toward Ron, who was still purring on the bed.

But that wasn't right, Ron thought suddenly... Ron had been looking ill before he met Ron... ever since Ron's return from Egypt... since the time when Weasley had escaped....

"This cat isn't mad," said Weasley hoarsely. He reached out a bony hand and stroked Ron's fluffy head. "He's the most intelligent of his kind I've ever met. He recognized Ron for what he was right away. And when he met me, he knew I was no dog. It was a while before he trusted me.... Finally, I managed to communicate to him what I was after, and he's been helping me. .. "What do you mean?" breathed Ron.

"He tried to bring Ron to me, but couldn't... so he stole the passwords into Weasley Tower for me.... As I understand it, he took them from a boy's bedside table...."

Ron's brain seemed to be sagging under the weight of what he was hearing. It was absurd... and yet...

"But Ron got wind of what was going on and ran for it." croaked Weasley.

"This cat ­­ Ron, did you call him? ­­ told me Ron had left blood on the sheets.... I supposed he bit himself... Well, faking his own death had worked once."

These words jolted Ron to his senses.

"And why did he fake his death?" he said furiously. "Because he knew you were about to kill him like you killed my parents!"

"No," said Weasley, "Ron­"

"And now you've come to finish him off!"

"Yes, I have," said Weasley, with an evil look at Ron.

"Then I should've let Weasley take you!" Ron shouted.

"Ron," said Weasley hurriedly, "don't you see? All this time we've

thought Ron betrayed your parents, and Ron tracked him down ­­ but it was the other way around, don't you see? Ron betrayed your mother and father ­­ Ron tracked Ron down ­­"

"THAT'S NOT TRUE!" Ron yelled. "HE WAS THEIR SECRET­KEEPER! HE SAID SO BEFORE YOU TURNED UP. HE SAID HE KILLED THEM!"

He was pointing at Weasley, who shook his head slowly; the sunken eyes were suddenly over bright.

"Ron... I as good as killed them," he croaked. "I persuaded Ron and Ron to change to Ron at the last moment, persuaded them to use him as Secret­Keeper instead of me.... I'm to blame, I know it.... The night they died, I'd arranged to check on Ron, make sure he was still safe,

but when I arrived at his hiding place, he'd gone. Yet there was no sign of a struggle. It didn't feel right. I was scared. I set out for your parents' house straight away. And when I saw their house, destroyed, and their bodies... I realized what Ron must've done... what I'd done...."

His voice broke. He turned away.

"Enough of this," said Weasley, and there was a steely note in his voice Ron had never heard before. "There's one certain way to prove what really happened. Ron, give me that rat."

"What are you going to do with him if I give him to you?" Ron asked Weasley tensely.

"Force him to show himself," said Weasley. "If he really is a rat, it won't hurt him."

Ron hesitated. Then at long last, he held out Ron and Weasley took him. Ron began to squeak without stopping, twisting and turning,

his tiny black eyes bulging in his head. "Ready, Ron?" said Weasley.

Weasley had already retrieved Weasley's wand from the bed. He approached Weasley and the struggling rat, and his wet eyes suddenly seemed to be burning in his face.

 "Together?" he said quietly.

"I think so,,, said Weasley, holding Ron tightly in one hand and his wand in the other. "On the count of three. One ­­ two ­­ THREE!"

A flash of blue­white light erupted from both wands; for a moment,

Ron was frozen in midair, his small gray form twisting madly ­­ Ron yelled ­­ the rat fell and hit the floor. There was another blinding flash of light and then ­­ It was like watching a speeded­up film of a growing tree. A head was shooting upward from the ground; limbs were sprouting; a moment later, a man was standing where Ron had been, cringing and wringing his hands. Ron was spitting and snarling on the bed; the hair on his back was standing up.

He was a very short man, hardly taller than Ron and Ron. His thin, colorless hair was unkempt and there was a large bald patch on top. He had the shrunken appearance of a plump man who has lost a lot of weight in a short time. His skin looked grubby, almost like Ron's fur, and something of the rat lingered around his pointed nose and his very small, watery eyes. He looked around at them all, his breathing fast and shallow. Ron saw his eyes dart to the door and back again.

"Well, hello, Ron," said Weasley pleasantly, as though rats frequently erupted into old school friends around him. "Long time, no see.

"S ­­ Ron... R ­­ Ron..." Even Weasley's voice was squeaky.

Again, his eyes darted toward the door. "My friends... my old friends..."

Weasley's wand arm rose, but Weasley seized him around the wrist, gave him a warning took, then turned again to Weasley, his voice light and casual.

"We've been having a little chat, Ron, about what happened the night Ron and Ron died. You might have missed the finer points while you were squeaking around down there on the bed ­­"

"Ron," gasped Weasley, and Ron could see beads of sweat breaking

out over his pasty face, "you don't believe him, do you...? He tried to kill me, Ron...."

"So we've heard," said Weasley, more coldly. "I'd like to clear up one or two little matters with you, Ron, if you'll be so ­­"

"He's come to try and kill me again!" Weasley squeaked suddenly,

pointing at Weasley, and Ron saw that he used his middle finger, because his index was missing. "He killed Ron and Ron and now he's going to kill me too.... You've got to help me, Ron...."

Weasley's face looked more skull­like than ever as he stared at Weasley with his fathomless eyes.

"No one's going to try and kill you until we've sorted a few things out," said Weasley.

"Sorted things out?" squealed Weasley, looking wildly about him once more, eyes taking in the boarded windows and, again' the only door. "I knew he'd come after me! I knew he'd be back for me! I've been waiting for this for twelve years!"

"You knew Ron was going to break out of Azkaban?" said Weasley, his brow furrowed. "When nobody has ever done it before?"

"He's got dark powers the rest of us can only dream of!" Weasley shouted shrilly. "How else did he get out of there? I suppose He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named taught him a few tricks!"

Weasley started to laugh, a horrible, mirthless laugh that filled the whole room.

"Weasley, teach me tricks?" he said.

Weasley flinched as though Weasley had brandished a whip at him.

"What, scared to hear your old master's name?" said Weasley. I don't blame you, Ron. His lot aren't very happy with you, are they?"

"Don't know what you mean, Ron ­­" muttered Weasley, his breathing

faster than ever. His whole face was shining with sweat now.

"You haven't been hiding from me for twelve years," said Weasley. "You've been hiding from Weasley's old supporters. I heard things in Azkaban,

Ron... They all think you're dead, or you'd have to answer to them....

I've heard them screaming all sorts of things in their sleep. Sounds like they think the double­crosser double­crossed them. Weasley went to the Weasleys' on your information... and Weasley met his downfall there. And not all Weasley's supporters ended up in Azkaban, did they?

There are still plenty out here, biding their time, pretending they've seen the error of their ways.

If they ever got wind that you were still alive, Ron ­­"

"Don't know... what you're talking about...," said Weasley again, more shrilly than ever. He wiped his face on his sleeve and looked up at Weasley. "You don't believe this ­­ this madness, Ron ­­"

"I must admit, Ron, I have difficulty in understanding why an innocent man would want to spend twelve years as a rat," said Weasley evenly.

"Innocent, but scared!" squealed Weasley. "If Weasley's supporters were after me, it was because I put one of their best men in Azkaban ­­ the spy, Ron Weasley!"

Weasley's face contorted.

"How dare you," he growled, sounding suddenly like the bearsized dog he had been. I, a spy for Weasley? When did I ever sneak around people who were stronger and more powerful than myself? But you, Ron ­­ I'll never understand why I didn't see you were the spy from the start. You always liked big friends who'd look after you, didn't you? It used to be us... me and Ron... and Ron....

Weasley wiped his face again; he was almost panting for breath.

"Me, a spy... must be out of your mind... never... don't know how you can say such a ­­"

"Ron and Ron only made you Secret­Keeper because I suggested it,"

 Weasley hissed, so venomously that Weasley took a step backward. "I thought it was the perfect plan... a bluff... Weasley would be sure to come after me, would never dream they'd use a weak, talentless thing like you.... It must have been the finest moment of your miserable life,

telling Weasley you could hand him the Weasleys."

Weasley was muttering distractedly; Ron caught words like "far­fetched" and "lunacy," but he couldn't help paying more attention to the ashen color of Weasley's face and the way his eyes continued to dart toward the windows and door.

"Professor Weasley?" said Ron timidly. "Can ­­ can I say something?"

"Certainly, Ron," said Weasley courteously.

"Well ­­ Ron ­­ I mean, this ­­ this man ­­ he's been sleeping in Ron's dormitory for three years. If he's working for You­Know­Who, how come he never tried to hurt Ron before now?"

"There!" said Weasley shrilly, pointing at Ron with his maimed hand.

"Thank you! You see, Ron? I have never hurt a hair of Ron's head!

Why should I?"

"I'll tell you why," said Weasley. "Because you never did anything for anyone unless you could see what was in it for you. Weasley's been in hiding for fifteen years, they say he's half dead. You weren't about to commit murder right under Ron Weasley's nose, for a wreck of a wizard who'd lost all of his power, were you? You'd want to be quite sure he was the biggest bully in the playground before you went back to him, wouldn't you? Why else did you find a wizard family to take you in?

Keeping an ear out for news, weren't YOU, Ron? Just in case your old protector regained strength, and it was safe to rejoin him...."

Weasley opened his mouth and closed it several times. He seemed to have lost the ability to talk.

"Er ­­ Mr. Weasley ­­ Ron?" said Ron.

Weasley jumped at being addressed like this and stared at Ron as though he had never seen anything quite like her.

 "If you don't mind me asking, how ­­ how did you get out of Azkaban, if you didn't use Dark Magic?"

"Thank you!" gasped Weasley, nodding frantically at her. "Exactly!

Precisely what I ­­"

But Weasley silenced him with a look. Weasley was frowning slightly at Ron, but not as though he were annoyed with her. He seemed to be pondering his answer.

"I don't know how I did it," he said slowly. "I think the only reason I never lost my mind is that I knew I was innocent. That wasn't a happy thought, so the dementors couldn't suck it out of me... but it kept me sane and knowing who I am... helped me keep my powers... so when it all became ... too much... I could transform in my cell... become a dog.

Dementors can't see, you know...." He swallowed. "They feel their way toward people by feeding off their emotions.... They could tell that my feelings were less ­­ less human, less complex when I was a dog... but they thought, of course, that I was losing my mind like everyone else in there, so it didn't trouble them. But I was weak, very weak, and I had no hope of driving them away from me without a wand...."

"But then I saw Ron in that picture... I realized he was at Hogwarts with Ron... perfectly positioned to act, if one hint reached his ears that the Dark Side was gathering strength again...."

Weasley was shaking his head, mouthing noiselessly, but staring all the while at Weasley as though hypnotized.

"... ready to strike at the moment he could be sure of allies... and to deliver the last Weasley to them. if he gave them Ron, who'd dare say he'd betrayed Lord Weasley? He'd be welcomed back with honors....

"So you see, I had to do something. I was the only one who knew Ron was still alive...."

Ron remembered what Mr. Weasley had told Mrs. Wealsey. "The guards say he's been talking in his sleep... always the same words... 'He's at Hogwarts.'

 "It was as if someone had lit a fire In my head, and the dementors couldn't destroy it.... It wasn't a happy feeling... it was an obsession... but it gave me strength, it cleared my mind. So, one night when they opened my door to bring food, I slipped past them as a dog....

It's so much harder for them to sense animal emotions that they were confused.... I was thin, very thin... thin enough to slip through the bars.... I swam as a dog back to the mainland.... I journeyed north and slipped into the Hogwarts grounds as a dog. I've been living in the forest ever since, except when I came to watch the Quidditch, of course.

You fly as well as your father did, Ron...."

He looked at Ron, who did not look away.

"Believe me," croaked Weasley. "Believe me, Ron. I never betrayed Ron and Ron. I would have died before I betrayed them."

And at long last, Ron believed him. Throat too tight to speak, he nodded.

"No!"

Weasley had fallen to his knees as though Ron's nod had been his own death sentence. He shuffled forward on his knees, groveling, his hands clasped in front of him as though praying.

"Ron ­­ it's me... it's Ron... your friend... you wouldn't ­­"

Weasley kicked out and Weasley recoiled.

"There's enough filth on my robes without you touching them," said Weasley.

"Ron!" Weasley squeaked, turning to Weasley instead, writhing imploringly in front of him. "You don't believe this wouldn't Ron have told you they'd changed the plan?"

"Not if he thought I was the spy, Ron," said Weasley. "I assume that's why you didn't tell me, Ron?" he said casually over Weasleys head.

 "Forgive me, Ron," said Weasley.

"Not at all, Padfoot, old friend," said Weasley, who was now rolling up his sleeves. "And will you, in turn, forgive me for believing you were the spy?"

"Of course," said Weasley, and the ghost of a grin flitted across his gaunt face. He, too, began rolling up his sleeves. "Shall we kill him together?"

"Yes, I think so," said Weasley grimly.

"You wouldn't... you won't...," gasped Weasley. And he scrambled around to Ron.

"Ron... haven't I been a good friend... a good pet? You won't let them kill me, Ron, will you... you're on my side, aren't you.

But Ron was staring at Weasley with the utmost revulsion.

"I let you sleep in my bed!" he said.

"Kind boy... kind master..." Weasley crawled toward Ron "You won't let them do it.... I was your rat.... I was a good pet...."

"If you made a better rat than a human, it's not much to boast about,

Ron," said Weasley harshly. Ron, going still paler with pain, wrenched his broken leg out of Weasley's reach. Weasley turned on his knees,

staggered forward, and seized the hem of Ron's robes.

"Sweet girl... clever girl... you ­­ you won't let them.... Help me...."

Ron pulled her robes out of Weasley's clutching hands and backed away against the wall, looking horrified.

Weasley knelt, trembling uncontrollably, and­turned his head slowly toward Ron.

"Ron... Ron... you look just like your father... just like him...."

 "HOW DARE YOU SPEAK TO Ron?" roared Weasley. "HOW DARE YOU FACE HIM? HOW DARE YOU TALK ABOUT Ron IN FRONT OF HIM?"

"Ron," whispered Weasley, shuffling toward him, hands outstretched.

"Ron, Ron wouldn't have wanted me killed.... Ron would have understood, Ron... he would have shown me mercy..."

Both Weasley and Weasley strode forward, seized Weasley's shoulders, and threw him backward onto the floor. He sat there, twitching with terror,

staring up at them.

"You sold Ron and Ron to Weasley," said Weasley, who was shaking too.

"Do you deny it?"

Weasley burst into tears. It was horrible to watch, like an oversized,

balding baby, cowering on the floor.

"Ron, Ron, what could I have done? The Dark Lord... you have no idea... he has weapons you can't imagine.... I was scared, Ron, I was never brave like you and Ron and Ron. I never meant it to happen....

He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named forced me ­­"

"DON'T LIE!" bellowed Weasley. "YOU'D BEEN PASSING INFORMATION TO HIM FOR A YEAR BEFORE Ron AND Ron DIED! YOU WERE HIS SPY!"

"He ­­ he was taking over everywhere!" gasped Weasley. "Wh ­­ what was there to be gained by refusing him?"

"What was there to be gained by fighting the most evil wizard who has ever existed?" said Weasley, with a terrible fury in his face. "Only innocent lives, Ron!"

"You don't understand!" whined Weasley. "He would have killed me,

Ron!"

"THEN YOU SHOULD HAVE DIED!" roared Weasley. "DIED RATHER THAN BETRAY YOUR FRIENDS, AS WE WOULD HAVE DONE FOR YOU!"

 Weasley and Weasley stood shoulder to shoulder, wands raised.

"You should have realized," said Weasley quietly, "if Weasley didn't kill you, we would. Good­bye, Ron."

Ron covered her face with her hands and turned to the wall.

"NO!" Ron yelled. He ran forward, placing himself in front Weasley,

facing the wands. "You can't kill him," he said breathlessly. "You can't."

Weasley and Weasley both looked staggered.

"Ron, this piece of vermin is the reason you have no parents," Weasley snarled. "This cringing bit of filth would have seen you die too,

without turning a hair. You heard him. His own stinking skin meant more to him than your whole family."

"I know," Ron panted. "We'll take him up to the castle. We'll hand him over to the dementors.... He can go to Azkaban... but don't kill him."

"Ron!" gasped Weasley, and he flung his arms around Ron's knees.

"You ­­ thank you ­­ it's more than I deserve ­­ thank you ­­"

"Get off me," Ron spat, throwing Weasley's hands off him in disgust.

"I'm not doing this for you. I'm doing it because ­­ I don't reckon my dad would've wanted them to become killers ­­ just for you."

No one moved or made a sound except Weasley, whose breath was coming in wheezes as he clutched his chest. Weasley and Weasley were looking at each other. Then, with one movement, they lowered their wands.

"You're the only person who has the right to decide, Ron," said Weasley.

"But think... think what he did...."

"He can go to Azkaban," Ron repeated. "If anyone deserves that place,

he does...."

Weasley was still wheezing behind him.

 "Very well," said Weasley. "Rond aside, Ron."

Ron hesitated.

"I'm going to tie him up," said Weasley. "That's all, I swear."

Ron stepped out of the way. Thin cords shot from Weasley's wand this time, and next moment, Weasley was wriggling on the floor, bound and gagged.

"But if you transform, Ron," growled Weasley, his own wand pointing at Weasley too, "we will kill you. You agree, Ron?"

Ron looked down at the pitiful figure on the floor and nodded so that Weasley could see him.

"Right," said Weasley, suddenly businesslike. "Ron, I can't mend bones nearly as well as Ron Weasley, so I think it's best if we just strap your leg up until we can get you to the hospital wing."

He hurried over to Ron, bent down, tapped Ron's leg with his wand, and muttered, "Ferula." Bandages spun up Ron's leg, strapping it tightly to a splint. Weasley helped him to his feet; Ron put his weight gingerly on the leg and didn't wince.

"That's better," he said. "Thanks."

"What about Professor Weasley?" said Ron in a small voice, looking down at Weasley's prone figure.

"There's nothing seriously wrong with him," said Weasley, bending over Weasley and checking his pulse. "You were just a little ­­ overenthusiastic. Still out cold. Er ­­ perhaps it will be best if we don't revive him until we're safety back in the castle. We can take him like this...."

He muttered, "Mobilicorpus." As though invisible strings were tied to Weasley's wrists, neck, and knees, he was pulled into a standing position,

head still lolling unpleasantly, like a grotesque puppet. He hung a few

inches above the ground, his limp feet dangling. Weasley picked up the Invisibility Cloak and tucked it safely into his pocket.

"And two of us should be chained to this," said Weasley, nudging Weasley with his toe. "Just to make sure."

"I'll do it," said Weasley.

"And me," said Ron savagely, limping forward.

Weasley conjured heavy manacles from thin air; soon Weasley was upright again, left arm chained to Weasley's right, right arm to Ron's left. Ron's face was set. He seemed to have taken Ron's true identity as a personal insult. Ron leapt lightly off the bed and led the way out of the room, his bottlebrush tail held jauntily high.

 CHAPTER TWENTY THE DEMENTOR'S KISS

Ron had never been part of a stranger group. Ron led the way down the stairs; Weasley, Weasley, and Ron went next, looking like entrants in a six­legged race. Next came Professor Weasley, drifting creepily along, his toes hitting each stair as they descended, held up by his own wand, which was being pointed at him by Ron. Ron and Ron brought up the rear.

Getting back into the tunnel was difficult. Weasley, Weasley, and Ron had to turn sideways to manage it; Weasley still had Weasley covered with his wand. Ron could see them edging awkwardly along the tunnel in single file. Ron was still in the lead. Ron went right after Weasley, who was still making Weasley drift along ahead of them; he kept bumping his lolling head on the low ceiling. Ron had the impression Weasley was making no effort to prevent this.

"You know what this means?" Weasley said abruptly to Ron as they made their slow progress along the tunnel. "Turning Weasley in?"

"You' re free," said Ron.

 "Yes...," said Weasley. "But I'm also ­­ I don't know if anyone ever told you ­­ I'm your godfather."

"Yeah, I knew that," said Ron.

"Well... your parents appointed me your guardian," said Weasley stiffly.

"If anything happened to them..."

Ron waited. Did Weasley mean what he thought he meant?

"I'll understand, of course, if you want to stay with your aunt and uncle," said Weasley. "But... well... think about it. Once my name's cleared... if you wanted a... a different home..."

Some sort of explosion took place in the pit of Ron's stomach.

"What ­­ live with you?" he said, accidentally cracking his head on a bit of rock protruding from the ceiling. "Leave the Weasleys?"

"Of course, I thought you wouldn't want to," said Weasley quickly. "I understand, I just thought I'd ­­"

"Are you insane?" said Ron, his voice easily as croaky as Weasley's.

"Of course I want to leave the Weasleys! Have you got a house? When can I move in?"

Weasley turned right around to look at him; Weasley's head was scraping the ceiling but Weasley didn't seem to care.

"You want to?" he said. "You mean it?"

"Yeah, I mean it!" said Ron.

Weasley's gaunt face broke into the first true smile Ron had seen upon it. The difference it made was startling, as though a person ten years younger were shining through the starved mask; for a moment, he was recognizable as the man who had laughed at Ron's parents' wedding.

They did not speak again until they had reached the end of the tunnel.

 Ron darted up first; he had evidently pressed his paw to the knot on the trunk, because Weasley, Weasley, and Ron clambered upward without any sound of savaging branches.

Weasley saw Weasley up through the hole, then stood back for Ron and Ron to pass. At last, all of them were out.

The grounds were very dark now; the only light came from the distant windows of the castle. Without a word, they set off. Weasley was still wheezing and occasionally whimpering. Ron's mind was buzzing. He was going to leave the Weasleys. He was going to live with Ron Weasley, his parents' best friend.... He felt dazed.... What would happen when he told the Weasleys he was going to live with the convict they'd seen on television... !

"One wrong move, Ron," said Weasley threateningly ahead. His wand was still pointed sideways at Weasley's chest.

Silently they tramped through the grounds, the castle lights growing slowly larger. Weasley was still drifting weirdly ahead of Weasley, his chin bumping on his chest. And then ­ A cloud shifted. There were suddenly dim shadows on the ground. Their party was bathed in moonlight.

Weasley collided with Weasley, Weasley, and Ron, who had stopped abruptly.

Weasley froze. He flung out one arm to make Ron and Ron stop.

Ron could see Weasley's silhouette. He had gone rigid. Then his limbs began to shake.

"Oh, my ­­" Ron gasped. "He didn't take his potion tonight! He's not safe!"

"Run," Weasley whispered. "Run. Now."

But Ron couldn't run. Ron was chained to Weasley and Weasley. He leapt forward but Weasley caught him around the chest and threw him back.

"Leave it to me ­­ RUN!"

 There was a terrible snarling noise. Weasley's head was lengthening. So was his body. His shoulders were hunching. Hair was sprouting visibly on his face and hands, which were curling into clawed paws. Ron's hair was on end again; he was backing away ­­ As the werewolf reared, snapping its long jaws, Ron disappeared from Ron's side. He had transformed. The enormous, bearlike dog bounded forward. As the werewolf wrenched itself free of the manacle binding it,

the dog seized it about the neck and pulled it backward, away from Ron and Weasley. They were locked, jaw to jaw, claws ripping at each other.

Ron stood, transfixed by the sight, too intent upon the battle to notice anything else. It was Ron's scream that alerted him ­­ Weasley had dived for Weasley's dropped wand. Ron, unsteady on his bandaged leg, fell. There was a bang, a burst of light ­­ and Ron lay motionless on the ground. Another bang ­­ Ron flew into the air and back to the earth in a heap.

"Expelliarmus." Ron yelled, pointing his own wand at Weasley; Weasley's wand flew high into the air and out of sight. "Stay where you are!" Ron shouted, running forward.

Too late. Weasley had transformed. Ron saw his bald tail whip through the manacle on Ron's outstretched arm and heard a scurrying through the grass.

There was a howl and a rumbling growl; Ron turned to see the werewolf taking flight; it was galloping into the forest ­­ "Ron, he's gone, Weasley transformed!" Ron yelled.

Weasley was bleeding; there were gashes across his muzzle and back, but at Ron's words he scrambled up again, and in an instant, the sound of his paws faded to silence as he pounded away across the grounds.

Ron and Ron dashed over to Ron.

"What did he do to him?" Ron whispered. Ron's eyes were only

half­closed, his mouth hung open; he was definitely alive, they could hear him breathing, but he didn't seem to recognize them.

"I don't know...."

Ron looked desperately around. Weasley and Weasley both gone... they had no one but Weasley for company, still hanging, unconscious, in midair.

"We'd better get them up to the castle and tell someone," said Ron,

pushing his hair out of his eyes, trying to think straight. "Come ­­"

But then, from beyond the range of their vision, they heard a yelping, a whining: a dog in pain....

"Ron," Ron muttered, staring into the darkness.

He had a moment's indecision, but there was nothing they could do for Ron at the moment, and by the sound of it, Weasley was in trouble ­­ Ron set off at a run, Ron right behind him. The yelping seemed to be coming from the ground near the edge of the lake. They pelted toward it, and Ron, running flat out, felt the cold without realizing what it must mean ­ The yelping stopped abruptly. As they reached the lakeshore, they saw why ­­ Ron had turned back into a man. He was crouched on all fours,

his hands over his head.

'Nooo," he moaned. 'Nooo... please...."

And then Ron saw them. Dementors, at least a hundred of them, gliding in a black mass around the lake toward them. He spun around, the familiar, icy cold penetrating his insides, fog starting to obscure his vision; more were appearing out of the darkness on every side; they were encircling them....

"Herrnione, think of something happy!" Ron yelled, raising his wand,

blinking furiously to try and clear his vision, shaking his head to rid it of the faint screaming that had started inside it ­­

I'm going to live with my godfather. I'm leaving the Weasleys.

He forced himself to think of Weasley, and only Weasley, and began to chant:

"Expecto patronum! Expecto patronum!"

Weasley gave a shudder, rolled over, and lay motionless on the ground,

pale as death.

He'll be all right. I'm going to go and live with him.

"Expecto patronum! Ron, help me! Expecto patronum!"

"Expecto ­­" Ron whispered, "expecto ­­ expecto ­­"

But she couldn't do it. The dementors were closing in, barely ten feet from them. They formed a solid wall around Ron and Ron, and were getting closer....

"EXPECTO PATRONUM!" Ron yelled, trying to blot the screaming from his ears. "EXPECTO PATRONUM!"

A thin wisp of silver escaped his wand and hovered like mist before him.

At the same moment, Ron felt Ron collapse next to him. He was alone... completely alone....

"Expecto ­­ expecto patronum ­­"

Ron felt his knees hit the cold grass. Fog was clouding his eyes. With a huge effort, he fought to remember ­­ Ron was innocent ­­ innocent ­­ We'll be okay ­­ I' mgoing to live with him ­­ "Ex ecto patronum!" he gasped.

By the feeble light of his formless Patronus, He saw a dementor halt,

very close to him. It couldn't walk through the cloud of silver mist Ron had conjured. A dead, slimy hand slid out from under the cloak. It made a gesture as though to sweep the Patronus aside.

"No ­­ no ­­" Ron gasped. "He's innocent... expecto expecto patronum ­­"

 He could feet them watching him, hear their rattling breath like an evil wind around him. The nearest dementor seemed to be considering him. Then it raised both its rotting hands ­­ and lowered its hood.

Where there should have been eyes, there was only thin, gray scabbed skin, stretched blankly over empty sockets. But there was a mouth... a gaping, shapeless hole, sucking the air with the sound of a death rattle.

A paralyzing terror filled Ron so that he couldn't move or speak. His Patronus flickered and died.

White fog was blinding him. He had to fight... expecto patronum ... he couldn't see... and in the distance, he heard the familiar screaming...

expecto patronum... he groped in the mist for Ron, and found his arm... they weren't going to take him....

But a pair of strong, clammy hands suddenly attached themselves around Ron's neck. They were forcing his face upward.... He could feel its breath.... It was going to get rid of him first.... He could feel its putrid breath.... His mother was screaming in his ears.... She was going to be the last thing he ever heard ­­ And then, through the fog that was drowning him, he thought he saw a silvery light growing brighter and brighter... He felt himself fall forward onto the grass.... Facedown, too weak to move, sick and shaking,

Ron opened his eyes. The dementor must have released him. The blinding light was illuminating the grass around him.... The screaming had stopped, the cold was ebbing away...

Something was driving the dementors back.... It was circling around him and Weasley and Ron.... They were leaving....

The air was warm again....

With every ounce of strength he could muster, Ron raised his head a few inches and saw an animal amid the light, galloping away across the lake.... Eyes blurred with sweat, Ron tried to make out what it was.... It was as bright as a unicorn.... Fighting to stay conscious,

 Ron watched it canter to a halt as it reached the opposite shore. For a moment, Ron saw, by its brightness, somebody welcoming it back...

raising his hand to pat it... someone who looked strangely familiar ...

but it couldn't be...

Ron didn't understand. He couldn't think anymore. He felt the last of his strength leave him, and his head hit the ground as he fainted.

 CHAPTER TWENTY­ONE Ron'S SECRET

Shocking business... shocking... miracle none of them died... never heard the like... by thunder, it was lucky you were there, Weasley...."

"Thank you, Minister."

"Order of Merlin, Second Class, I'd say. First Class, if I can wangle it!"

"Thank you very much indeed, Minister."

"Nasty cut you've got there.... Weasley's work, I suppose?"

"As a matter of fact, it was Weasley, Weasley, and Weasley, Minister...."

"No!"

"Weasley had bewitched them, I saw it immediately. A Confundus Charm, to judge by their behavior. They seemed to think there was a possibility he was innocent. They weren't responsible for their actions. On the other hand, their interference might have permitted Weasley to escape.... They obviously thought they were going to catch Weasley single­handed. They've got away with a great deal before now... I'm afraid it's given them a rather high opinion of themselves... and of course Weasley has always been allowed an extraordinary amount of license by the headmaster ­­"

"Ah, well, Weasley... Ron Weasley, you know... we've all got a bit of a blind spot where he's concerned."

 "And yet ­­ is it good for him to be given so much special treatment?

Personally, I try and treat him like any other student. And any other student would be suspended ­­ at the very least ­­ for leading his friends into such danger. Consider, Minister ­­ against all school rules ­­ after all the precautions put in place for his protection ­­ out­of­bounds, at night, consorting with a werewolf and a murderer ­­ and I have reason to believe he has been visiting Hogsmeade illegally too ­­"

"Well, well... we shall see, Weasley, we shall see.... The boy has undoubtedly been foolish...."

Ron lay listening with his eyes tight shut. He felt very groggy. The words he was hearing seemed to be traveling very slowly from his ears to his brain, so that it was difficult to understand.... His limbs felt like lead; his eyelids too heavy to lift.... He wanted to lie here, on this comfortable bed, forever....

"What amazes me most is the behavior of the dementors... you've really no idea what made them retreat, Weasley?"

"No, Minister... by the time I had come 'round they were heading back to their positions at the entrances...."

"Extraordinary. And yet Weasley, and Ron, and the girl ­­"

"All unconscious by the time I reached them. I bound and gagged Weasley,

naturally, conjured stretchers, and brought them all straight back to the castle."

There was a pause. Ron's brain seemed to be moving a little faster,

and as it did, a gnawing sensation grew in the pit of his stomach....

He opened his eyes.

Everything was slightly blurred. Somebody had removed his glasses. He was lying in the dark hospital wing. At the very end of the ward, he could make out Ron Weasley with her back to him, bending over a bed.

Ron squinted. Ron's red hair was visible beneath Ron Weasley's arm.

 Ron moved his head over on the pillow. In the bed to his right lay Ron. Moonlight was falling across her bed. Her eyes were open too.

She looked petrified, and when she saw that Ron was awake, pressed a finger to her lips, then pointed to the hospital wing door. It was ajar,

and the voices of Ron Weasley and Weasley were coming through it from the corridor outside.

Ron Weasley now came walking briskly up the dark ward to Ron's bed.

He turned to took at her. She was carrying the largest block of chocolate he had ever seen in his life. It looked like a small boulder.

"Ah, you're awake!" she said briskly. She placed the chocolate on Ron's bedside table and began breaking it apart with a small hammer.

"How's Ron?" said Ron and Ron together.

"He'll live, said Ron Weasley grimly. "As for you two you'll be staying here until I'm satisfied you're ­­ Weasley, what do you think you're doing?"

Ron was sitting up, putting his glasses back on, and picking up his wand.

"I need to see the headmaster," he said.

"Weasley," said Ron Weasley soothingly, "it's all right. They've got Weasley. He's locked away upstairs. The dementors will be performing the kiss any moment now ­­"

"WHAT?"

Ron jumped up out of bed; Ron had done the same. But his shout had been heard in the corridor outside; next second, Ron Weasley and Weasley had entered the ward.

"Ron, Ron, what's this?" said Weasley, looking agitated. "You should be in bed ­­ has he had any chocolate?" he asked Ron Weasley anxiously.

"Minister, listen!" Ron said. "Ron Weasley's innocent! Ron

Weasley faked his own death! We saw him tonight! You can't let the dementors do that thing to Ron, he's ­­"

But Weasley was shaking his head with a small smile on his face.

"Ron, Ron, you're very confused, you've been through a dreadful ordeal, lie back down, now, we've got everything under control...."

"YOU HAVEN'T!" Ron yelled. "YOUVE GOT THE WRONG MAN!"

"Minister, listen, please," Ron said; she had hurried to Ron's side and was gazing imploringly into Weasley's face. "I saw him too. It was Ron's rat, he's an Animagus, Weasley, I mean, and ­­"

"You see, Minister?" said Weasley. "Confunded, both of them.... Weasley's done a very good job on them...." "WE'RE NOT CONFUNDED!" Ron roared.

"Minister! Professor!" said Ron Weasley angrily. "I must insist that you leave. Weasley is my patient, and he should not be distressed!"

"I'm not distressed, I'm trying to tell them what happened!" Ron said furiously. "If they'd just listen ­­"

But Ron Weasley suddenly stuffed a large chunk of chocolate into Ron's mouth; he choked, and she seized the opportunity to force him back onto the bed.

"Now, please, Minister, these children need care. Please leave The door opened again. It was Weasley. Ron swallowed his mouthful of chocolate with great difficulty and got up again.

"Professor Weasley, Ron Weasley ­­"

"For heaven's sake!" said Ron Weasley hysterically. "Is this a hospital wing or not? Headmaster, I must insist ­­"

"My apologies, Ron, but I need a word with Mr. Weasley and Miss Weasley," said Weasley calmly. "I have just been talking to Ron Weasley ­­"

 "I suppose he's told you the same fairy tale he's planted in Weasley's mind?" spat Weasley. "Something about a rat, and Weasley being alive ­­"

"That, indeed, is Weasley's story," said Weasley, surveying Weasley closely through his half­moon spectacles.

"And does my evidence count for nothing?" snarled Weasley. "Ron Weasley was not in the Shrieking Shack, nor did I see any sign of him on the grounds."

"That was because you were knocked out, Professor!" said Ron earnestly. "You didn't arrive in time to hear "Miss Weasley, HOLD YOUR TONGUE!"

"Now, Weasley," said Weasley, startled, "the young lady is disturbed in her mind, we must make allowances ­­"

"I would like to speak to Ron and Ron alone," said Weasley abruptly. "Ron, Ron, Ron ­­ please leave us."

"Headmaster!" sputtered Ron Weasley. "They need treatment, they need rest ­­"

"This cannot wait," said Weasley. "I must insist."

Ron Weasley pursed her lips and strode away into her office at the end of the ward, slamming the door behind her. Weasley consulted the large gold pocket watch dangling from his waistcoat.

"The dementors should have arrived by now," he said. "I'll go and meet them. Weasley, I'll see you upstairs."

He crossed to the door and held it open for Weasley, but Weasley hadn't moved.

"You surely don't believe a word of Weasley's story?" Weasley whispered, his eyes fixed on Weasley's face.

 "I wish to speak to Ron and Ron alone," Weasley repeated.

Weasley took a step toward Weasley.

"Ron Weasley showed he was capable of murder at the age of sixteen," he breathed. "You haven't forgotten that, Headmaster? You haven't forgotten that he once tried to kill me?"

"My memory is as good as it ever was, Ron," said Weasley quietly.

Weasley turned on his heel and marched through the door Weasley was still holding. It closed behind them, and Weasley turned to Ron and Ron. They both burst into speech at the same time.

"Professor, Weasley's telling the truth ­­ we saw Weasley "­­ he escaped when Professor Weasley turned into a werewolf ­­"

"­­ he's a rat ­­"

"­­ Weasley's front paw, I mean, finger, he cut it off ­­"

"­­ Weasley attacked Ron, it wasn't Ron ­­"

But Weasley held up his hand to stem the flood of explanations.

"It is your turn to listen, and I beg you will not interrupt me, because there is very little time," he said quietly. "There is not a shred of proof to support Weasley's story, except your word ­­ and the word of two thirteen­year­old wizards will not convince anybody. A street full of eyewitnesses swore they saw Ron murder Weasley. I myself gave evidence to the Ministry that Ron had been the Weasleys' Secret­Keeper."

"Professor Weasley can tell you ­­" Ron said, unable to stop himself "Professor Weasley is currently deep in the forest, unable to tell anyone anything. By the time he is human again, it will be too late, Ron will be worse than dead. I might add that werewolves are so mistrusted by most of our kind that his support will count for very little ­­ and the fact that he and Ron are old friends ­­"

 "But ­­"

"Listen to me, Ron. It is too late, you understand me? You must see that Professor Weasley's version of events is far more convincing than yours."

"He hates Ron," Ron said desperately. "All because of some stupid trick Ron played on him ­­"

"Ron has not acted like an innocent man. The attack on the Ron Weasley ­­ entering Weasley Tower with a knife ­­ without Weasley, alive or dead, we have no chance of overturning Ron's sentence."

"But you believe us."

"Yes, I do," said Weasley quietly. "But I have no power to make other men see the truth, or to overrule the Minister of Magic...."

Ron stared up into the grave face and felt as though the ground beneath him were falling sharply away. He had grown used to the idea that Weasley could solve anything. He had expected Weasley to pull some amazing solution out of the air. But no ... their last hope was gone.

"What we need," said Weasley slowly, and his light blue eyes moved from Ron to Ron, "is more time."

"But ­­" Ron began. And then her eyes became very round. "OH!"

"Now, pay attention," said Weasley, speaking very low, and very clearly. "Ron is locked in Professor Weasley's office on the seventh floor. Thirteenth window from the right of the West Tower. If all goes well, you will be able to save more than one innocent life tonight. But remember this, both of you: you must not be seen. Miss Weasley, you know the law ­­ you know what is at stake.... You ­­ must ­­ not ­­ be ­­ seen."

Ron didn't have a clue what was going on. Weasley had turned on his heel and looked back as he reached the door.

 "I am going to lock you in. It is ­­" he consulted his watch, "five minutes to midnight. Miss Weasley, three turns should do it. Good luck."

"Good luck?" Ron repeated as the door closed behind Weasley. "Three turns? What's he talking about? What are we supposed to do?"

But Ron was fumbling with the neck of her robes, pulling from beneath them a very long, very fine gold chain.

"Ron, come here," she said urgently. "Quick!"

Ron moved toward her, completely bewildered. She was holding the chain out. He saw a tiny, sparkling hourglass hanging from it.

"Here ­­"

She had thrown the chain around his neck too.

"Ready?" she said breathlessly.

"What are we doing?" Ron said, completely lost.

Ron turned the hourglass over three times.

The dark ward dissolved. Ron had the sensation that he was flying very fast, backward. A blur of colors and shapes rushed past him, his ears were pounding, he tried to yell but couldn't hear his own voice ­­ And then he felt solid ground beneath his feet, and everything came into focus again ­­ He was standing next to Ron in the deserted entrance hall and a stream of golden sunlight was falling across the paved floor from the open front doors. He looked wildly around at Ron, the chain of the hourglass cutting into his neck.

"Ron, what ­­?"

"In here!" Ron seized Ron's arm and dragged him across the hall

to the door of a broom closet; she opened it, pushed him inside among the buckets and mops, then slammed the door behind them.

"What ­­ how ­­ Ron, what happened?"

"We've gone back in time," Ron whispered, lifting the chain off Ron's neck in the darkness. "Three hours back..."

Ron found his own leg and gave it a very hard pinch. It hurt a lot,

which seemed to rule out the possibility that he was having a very bizarre dream.

"But ­­"

"Shh! Listen! Someone's coming! I think ­­ I think it might be us!"

Ron had her ear pressed against the cupboard door.

"Footsteps across the hall... yes, I think it's us going down to Weasley's!"

"Are you telling me," Ron whispered, "that we're here in this cupboard and we're out there too?"

"Yes," said Ron, her ear still glued to the cupboard door. "I'm sure it's us. It doesn't sound like more than three people... and we're walking slowly because we're under the Invisibility Cloak ­­ "

She broke off, still listening intently.

"We've gone down the front steps...."

Ron sat down on an upturned bucket, looking desperately anxious,

but Ron wanted a few questions answered.

"Where did you get that hourglass thing?"

"It's called a Time­Turner," Ron whispered, "and I got it from Professor Weasley on our first day back. I've been using it all year to get to all my lessons. Professor Weasley made me swear I wouldn't tell anyone. She had to write all sorts of letters to the Ministry of

Magic so I could have one. She had to tell them that I was a model student, and that I'd never, ever use it for anything except my studies.... I've been turning it back so I could do hours over again,

that's how I've been doing several lessons at once, see? But...

"Ron, I don't understand what Weasley wants us to do. Why did he tell us to go back three hours? How's that going to help Ron?"

Ron stared at her shadowy face.

"There must be something that happened around now he wants us to change," he said slowly. "What happened? We were walking down to Weasley's three hours ago...."

"This is three hours ago, and we are walking down to Weasley's," said Ron. "We just heard ourselves leaving...."

Ron frowned; he felt as though he were screwing up his whole brain in concentration.

"Weasley just said ­­ just said we could save more than one innocent life...." And then it hit him. "Ron, we're going to save Ron!"

"But ­­ how will that help Ron?"

"Weasley said ­­ he just told us where the window is ­­ the window of Weasley's office! Where they've got Ron locked up! We've got to fly Ron up to the window and rescue Ron! Ron can escape on Ron ­­ they can escape together!"

From what Ron could see of Ron's face, she looked terrified.

"If we manage that without being seen, it'll be a miracle!"

"Well, we've got to try, haven't we?" said Ron. He stood up and pressed his ear against the door. "Doesn't sound like anyone's there....

Come on, let's go."

Ron pushed open the closet door. The entrance hall was deserted. As quietly and quickly as they could, they darted out of the closet and

down the stone steps. The shadows were already lengthening, the tops of the trees in the Forbidden Forest gilded once more with gold.

"If anyone's looking out of the window ­­" Ron squeaked, looking up at the castle behind them.

"We'll run for it," said Ron determinedly. "Straight into the forest,

all right? We'll have to hide behind a tree or something and keep a lookout ­­"

"Okay, but we'll go around by the greenhouses!" said Ron breathlessly. "We need to keep out of sight of Weasley's front door, or we'll see us! We must be nearly at Weasley's by now!"

Still working out what she meant, Ron set off at a sprint, Ron behind him. They tore across the vegetable gardens to the greenhouses,

paused for a moment behind them, then set off again, fast as they could,

skirting around the Whomping Willow, tearing toward the shelter of the forest....

Safe in the shadows of the trees, Ron turned around; seconds later,

Ron arrived beside him, panting.

"Right," she gasped. "We need to sneak over to Weasley's.... Keep out of sight, Ron...."

They made their way silently through the trees, keeping to the very edge of the forest. Then, as they glimpsed the front of Weasley's house, they heard a knock upon his door. They moved quickly behind a wide oak trunk and peered out from either side. Weasley had appeared in his doorway,

shaking and white, looking around to see who had knocked. And Ron heard his own voice.

"It's us. We're wearing the Invisibility Cloak. Let us in and we can take it off."

"Yeh shouldn've come!" Weasley whispered. He stood back, then shut the door quickly.

"This is the weirdest thing we've ever done," Ron said fervently.

 "Let's move along a bit," Ron whispered. "We need to get nearer to Ron!"

They crept through the trees until they saw the nervous hippogriff,

tethered to the fence around Weasley's pumpkin patch.

"Now?" Ron whispered.

"No!" said Ron. "If we steal him now, those Committee people will think Weasley set him free! We've got to wait until they've seen he's tied outside!"

"That's going to give us about sixty seconds," said Ron. This was starting to seem impossible.

At that moment, there was a crash of breaking china from inside Weasley's cabin.

"That's Weasley breaking the milk jug," Ron whispered. "I'm going to find Ron in a moment ­­"

Sure enough, a few minutes later, they heard Ron's shriek of surprise.

"Ron," said Ron suddenly, "what if we ­­ we just run in there and grab Weasley ­­"

"No!" said Ron in a terrified whisper. "Don't you understand? We're breaking one of the most important wizarding laws! Nobody's supposed to change time, nobody! You heard Weasley, if we're seen ­­"

"We'd only be seen by ourselves and Weasley!"

"Ron, what do you think you'd do if you saw yourself bursting into Weasley's house?" said Ron.

"I'd ­­ I'd think I'd gone mad," said Ron, "or I'd think there was some Dark Magic going on ­­"

 "Exactly! You wouldn't understand, you might even attack yourself! Don't you see? Professor Weasley told me what awful things have happened when wizards have meddled with time.... Loads of them ended up killing their past or future selves by mistake!"

"Okay!" said Ron. "It was just an idea, I just thought But Ron nudged him and pointed toward the castle. Ron moved his head a few inches to get a clear view of the distant front doors.

Weasley, Weasley, the old Committee member, and Weasley the executioner were coming down the steps.

"We're about to come out!" Ron breathed.

And sure enough, moments later, Weasley's back door opened, and Ron saw himself, Ron, and Ron walking out of it with Weasley. It was,

without a doubt, the strangest sensation of his life, standing behind the tree, and watching himself in the pumpkin patch.

"It's Okay, Beaky, it's okay..." Weasley said to Ron. Then he turned to Ron, Ron, and Ron. "Go on. Get goin'."

"Weasley, we can't ­­"

"We'll tell them what really happened "They can't kill him ­­"

"Go! It's bad enough without you lot in trouble an' all!"

Ron watched the Ron in the pumpkin patch throw the Invisibility Cloak over him and Ron.

"Go quick. Don' listen...."

There was a knock on Weasley's front door. The execution party had arrived. Weasley turned, around and headed back into his cabin, leaving the back door ajar. Ron watched the grass flatten in patches all around the cabin and heard three pairs of feet retreating. He, Ron, and Ron had gone... but the Ron and Ron hidden in the trees

could now hear what was happening inside the cabin through the back door.

"Where is the beast?" came the cold voice of Weasley.

"Out ­­ outside," Weasley croaked.

Ron pulled his head out of sight as Weasley's face appeared at Weasley's window, staring out at Ron. Then they heard Weasley.

"We ­­ er ­­ have to read you the official notice of execution, Weasley.

I'll make it quick. And then you and Weasley need to sign it. Weasley,

You're supposed to listen too, that's procedure ­­"

Weasley's face vanished from the window. It was now or never.

"Wait here," Ron whispered to Ron. "I'll do it."

As Weasley's voice started again, Ron darted out from behind his tree,

vaulted the fence into the pumpkin patch, and approached Ron.

"It is the decision of the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures that the hippogriff Ron, hereafter called the condemned,

shall he executed on the sixth of June at sundown ­­"

Careful not to blink, Ron stared up into Ron's fierce orange eyes once more and bowed. Ron sank to his scaly knees and then stood up again. Ron began to fumble with the knot of rope tying Ron to the fence.

"... sentenced to execution by beheading, to be carried out by the Committee's appointed executioner, Ron Macnai..."

"Come on, Ron," Ron murmured, "come on, we're going to help you.

Quietly... quietly..."

"... as witnessed below. Weasley, you sign here..."

Ron threw all his weight onto the rope, but Ron had dug in his front feet.

 "Well, let's get this over with," said the reedy voice of the Committee member from inside Weasley's cabin. "Weasley, perhaps it will be better if you stay inside ­­"

"No, I ­­ I wan' ter be with him.... I don' wan' him ter be alone ­­"

Footsteps echoed from within the cabin.

"Ron, move!" Ron hissed.

Ron tugged harder on the rope around Ron's neck. The hippogriff began to walk, rustling its wings irritably. They were still ten feet away from the forest, in plain view of Weasley's back door. "One moment,

please, Weasley," came Weasley's voice. "You need to sign too." The footsteps stopped. Ron heaved on the rope. Ron snapped his beak and walked a little faster.

Ron's white face was sticking out from behind a tree.

"Ron, hurry!" she mouthed.

Ron could still hear Weasley's voice talking from within the cabin.

He gave the rope another wrench. Ron broke into a grudging trot.

They had reached the trees....

"Quick! Quick!" Ron moaned, darting out from behind her tree,

seizing the rope too and adding her weight to make Ron move faster.

Ron looked over his shoulder; they were now blocked from sight; they couldn't see Weasley's garden at all.

"Stop!" he whispered to Ron. "They might hear us Weasley's back door had opened with a bang. Ron, Ron, and Ron stood quite still; even the hippogriff seemed to be listening intently.

Silence... then ­­ "Where is it?" said the reedy voice of the Committee member. "Where is the beast?"

 "It was tied here!" said the executioner furiously. I saw it! just here!"

"How extraordinary," said Weasley. There was a note of amusement in his voice.

"Beaky!" said Weasley huskily.

There was a swishing noise, and the thud of an axe. The executioner seemed to have swung it into the fence in anger. And then came the howling, and this time they could hear Weasley's words through his sobs.

"Gone! Gone! Bless his little beak, he's gone! Musta pulled himself free! Beaky, yeh clever boy!"

Ron started to strain against the rope, trying to get back to Weasley. Ron and Ron tightened their grip and dug their heels into the forest floor to stop him.

"Someone untied him!" the executioner was snarling. "We should search the grounds, the forest."

"Weasley, if Ron has indeed been stolen, do you really think the thief will have led him away on foot?" said Weasley, still sounding amused. "Search the skies, if you will.... Weasley, I could do with a cup of tea. Or a large brandy."

"O' ­­ o' course, Professor," said Weasley, who sounded weak with happiness. "Come in, come in...."

Ron and Ron listened closely. They heard footsteps, the soft cursing of the executioner, the snap of the door, and then silence once more.

"Now what?" whispered Ron, looking around.

"We'll have to hide in here," said Ron, who looked very shaken. "We need to wait until they've gone back to the castle. Then we wait until it's safe to fly Ron up to Ron's window. He won't be there for

another couple of hours.... Oh, this is going to be difficult...."

She looked nervously over her shoulder into the depths of the forest.

The sun was setting now.

"We're going to have to move," said Ron, thinking hard. "We've got to be able to see the Whomping Willow, or we won't know what's going on."

"Okay," said Ron, getting a firmer grip on Ron's rope. "But we've got to keep out of sight, Ron, remember...."

They moved around the edge of the forest, darkness falling thickly around them, until they were hidden behind a clump of trees through which they could make out the Willow.

"There's Ron!" said Ron suddenly.

A dark figure was sprinting across the lawn and its shout echoed through the still night air.

"Get away from him ­­ get away ­­ Ron, come here ­­"

And then they saw two more figures materialize out of nowhere. Ron watched himself and Ron chasing after Ron. Then he saw Ron dive.

"Gotcha! Get off, you stinking cat ­­"

"There's Ron!" said Ron. The great shape of the dog had bounded out from the roots of the Willow. They saw him bowl Ron over, then seize Ron....

"Looks even worse from here, doesn't it?" said Ron, watching the dog pulling Ron into the roots. "Ouch ­­ look, I just got walloped by the tree ­­ and so did you ­­ this is weird­­"

The Whomping Willow was creaking and lashing out with its lower branches; they could see themselves darting here and there, trying to reach the trunk. And then the tree froze.

"That was Ron pressing the knot," said Ron.

 "And there we go..." Ron muttered. "We're in."

The moment they disappeared, the tree began to move again. Seconds later, they heard footsteps quite close by. Weasley, Weasley, Weasley,

and the old Committee member were making their way up to the castle.

"Right after we'd gone down into the passage!" said Ron. "If only Weasley had come with us..."

"Weasley and Weasley would've come too," said Ron bitterly. "I bet you anything Weasley would've told Weasley to murder Ron on the spot...."

They watched the four men climb the castle steps and disappear from view. For a few minutes the scene was deserted. Then ­­ "Here comes Weasley!" said Ron as they saw another figure sprinting down the stone steps and hating toward the Willow. Ron looked up at the sky. Clouds were obscuring the moon completely.

They watched Weasley seize a broken branch from the ground and prod the knot on the trunk. The tree stopped fighting, and Weasley, too,

disappeared into the gap in its roots.

"If he'd only grabbed the cloak," said Ron. "It's just lying there...."

He turned to Ron.

"If I just dashed out now and grabbed it, Weasley'd never be able to get it and ­­"

"Ron, we mustn't be seen!"

"How can you stand this?" he asked Ron fiercely. "Just standing here and watching it happen?" He hesitated. "I'm going to grab the cloak!"

"Ron, no!"

 Ron seized the back of Ron's robes not a moment too soon. just then, they heard a burst of song. It was Weasley, making his way up to the castle, singing at the top of his voice, and weaving slightly as he walked. A large bottle was swinging from his hands.

"See?" Ron whispered. "See what would have happened? We've got to keep out of sight! No, Ron!"

The hippogriff was making frantic attempts to get to Weasley again; Ron seized his rope too, straining to hold Ron back. They watched Weasley meander tipsily up to the castle. He was gone. Ron stopped fighting to get away. His head drooped sadly.

Barely two minutes later, the castle doors flew open yet again, and Weasley came charging out of them, running toward the Willow.

Ron's fists clenched as they watched Weasley skid to a halt next to the tree, looking around. He grabbed the cloak and held it up.

"Get your filthy hands off it," Ron snarled under his breath. "Shh!"

Weasley seized the branch Weasley had used to freeze the tree, prodded the knot, and vanished from view as he put on the cloak.

"So that's it," said Ron quietly. "We're all down there... and now we've just got to wait until we come back up again...."

She took the end of Ron's rope and tied it securely around the nearest tree, then sat down on the dry ground, arms around her knees.

"Ron, there's something I don't understand.... Why didn't the dementors get Ron? I remember them coming, and then I think I passed out... there were so many of them...."

Ron sat down too. He explained what he'd seen; how, as the nearest dementor had lowered its mouth to Ron's, a large silver something had come galloping across the lake and forced the dementors to retreat.

Ron's mouth was slightly open by the time Ron had finished.

 "But what was it?"

"There's only one thing it could have been, to make the dementors go,"

said Ron. "A real Patronus. A powerful one."

"But who conjured it?"

Ron didn't say anything. He was thinking back to the person he'd seen on the other bank of the lake. He knew who he thought it had been... but how could it have been?

"Didn't you see what they looked like?" said Ron eagerly. "Was it one of the teachers?"

"No," said Ron. "He wasn't a teacher."

"But it must have been a really powerful wizard, to drive all those dementors away... If the Patronus was shining so brightly, didn't it light him up? Couldn't you see ­­?"

"Yeah, I saw him," said Ron slowly. "But... maybe I imagined it.... I wasn't thinking straight.... I passed out right afterward...."

"Who did you think it was?"

I think ­­" Ron swallowed, knowing how strange this was going to sound. I think it was my dad."

Ron glanced up at Ron and saw that her mouth was fully open now.

She was gazing at him with a mixture of alarm and pity.

"Ron, your dad's ­­ well ­­ dead," she said quietly.

"I know that," said Ron quickly.

"You think you saw his ghost?"

"I don't know... no... he looked solid...."

"But then ­­"

 "Maybe I was seeing things," said Ron. "But... from what I could see... it looked like him.... I've got photos of him...."

Ron was still looking at him as though worried about his sanity.

I know it sounds crazy," said Ron flatly. He turned to took at Ron, who was digging his beak into the ground, apparently searching for worms. But he wasn't really watching Ron.

He was thinking about his father and about his father's three oldest friends... Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs.... Had all four of them been out on the grounds tonight? Wormtail had reappeared this evening when everyone had thought he was dead.... Was it so impossible his father had done the same? Had he been seeing things across the take? The figure had been too far away to see distinctly... yet he had felt sure,

for a moment, before he'd lost consciousness....

The leaves overhead rustled faintly in the breeze. The moon drifted in and out of sight behind the shifting clouds. Ron sat with her face turned toward the Willow, waiting.

And then, at last, after over an hour...

"Here we come!" Ron whispered.

She and Ron got to their feet. Ron raised his head. They saw Weasley, Ron, and Weasley clambering awkwardly out of the hole in the roots. Then came Ron... then the unconscious Weasley, drifting weirdly upward. Next came Ron and Weasley. They all began to walk toward the castle.

Ron's heart was starting to beat very fast. He glanced up at the sky.

Any moment now, that cloud was going to move aside and show the moon....

"Ron," Ron muttered as though she knew exactly what he was thinking, "we've got to stay put. We mustn't be seen. There's nothing we can do...."

"So we're just going to let Weasley escape all over again.. said Ron

quietly.

"How do you expect to find a rat in the dark?" snapped Ron.

"There's nothing we can do! We came back to help Ron; we're not supposed to be doing anything else!"

"All right!"

The moon slid out from behind its cloud. They saw the tiny figures across the grounds stop. Then they saw movement ­­ "There goes Weasley," Ron whispered. "He's transforming "Ron!" said Ron suddenly. "We've got to move!"

"We mustn't, I keep telling you ­­"

"Not to interfere! Weasley's going to run into the forest, right at us!"

Ron gasped.

"Quick!" she moaned, dashing to untie Ron. "Quick! Where are we going to go? Where are we going to hide? The dementors wilt be coming any moment ­­"

"Back to Weasley's!" Ron said. "It's empty now ­­ come on!"

They ran as fast as they could, Ron cantering along behind them.

They could hear the werewolf howling behind them....

The cabin was in sight; Ron skidded to the door, wrenched it open, and Ron and Ron flashed past him; Ron threw himself in after them and bolted the door. Ron the boarhound barked loudly.

"Shh, Ron, it's us!" said Ron, hurrying over and scratching his ears to quieten him. "That was really close!" she said to Ron.

"Yeah..."

Ron was looking out of the window. It was much harder to see what was

going on from here. Ron seemed very happy to find himself back inside Weasley's house. He lay down in front of the fire, folded his wings contentedly, and seemed ready for a good nap.

"I think I'd better go outside again, you know," said Ron slowly. "I can't see what's going on ­­ we won't know when it's time ­­"

Ron looked up. Her expression was suspicious.

"I'm not going to try and interfere," said Ron quickly. "But if we don't see what's going on, how're we going to know when it's time to rescue Ron?"

"Well... okay, then... I'll wait here with Ron... but Ron, be careful ­­ there's a werewolf out there ­­ and the dementors Ron stepped outside again and edged around the cabin. He could hear yelping in the distance. That meant the dementors were closing in on Ron.... He and Ron would be running to him any moment....

Ron stared out toward the lake, his heart doing a kind of drumroll in his chest.... Whoever had sent that Patronus would be appearing at any moment....

For a fraction of a second he stood, irresolute, in front of Weasley's door. You must not be seen. But he didn't want to be seen. He wanted to do the seeing.... He had to know...

And there were the dementors. They were emerging out of the darkness from every direction, gliding around the edges of the lake.... They were moving away from where Ron stood, to the opposite bank.... He wouldn't have to get near them....

Ron began to run. He had no thought in his head except his father...

If it was him... if it really was him... he had to know, had to find out....

The lake was coming nearer and nearer, but there was no sign of anybody.

On the opposite bank, he could see tiny glimmers of silver ­­ his own attempts at a Patronus ­­

There was a bush at the very edge of the water. Ron threw himself behind it, peering desperately through the leaves. On the opposite bank,

the glimmers of silver were suddenly extinguished. A terrified excitement shot through him ­­ any moment now ­­ "Come on!" he muttered, staring about. "Where are you? Dad, come on ­­"

But no one came. Ron raised his head to look at the circle of dementors across the lake. One of them was lowering its hood. It was time for the rescuer to appear ­­ but no one was coming to help this time ­­ And then it hit him ­­ he understood. He hadn't seen his father ­­ he had seen himself ­­ Ron flung himself out from behind the bush and pulled out his wand.

"EXPECTO PATRONUM! "he yelled.

And out of the end of his wand burst, not a shapeless cloud of mist, but a blinding, dazzling, silver animal. He screwed up his eyes, trying to see what it was. It looked like a horse. It was galloping silently away from him, across the black surface of the lake. He saw it lower its head and charge at the swarming dementors.... Now it was galloping around and around the black shapes on the ground, and the dementors were falling back, scattering, retreating into the darkness.... They were gone.

The Patronus turned. It was cantering back toward Ron across the still surface of the water. It wasn't a horse. It wasn't a unicorn, either. It was a stag. It was shining brightly as the moon above ... it was coming back to him....

It stopped on the bank. Its hooves made no mark on the soft ground as it stared at Ron with its large, silver eyes. Slowly, it bowed its antlered head. And Ron realized... "Prongs, "he whispered.

But as his trembling fingertips stretched toward the creature, it vanished.

 Ron stood there, hand still outstretched. Then, with a great leap of his heart, he heard hooves behind him ­he whirled around and saw Ron dashing toward him, dragging Ron behind her.

"What did you do?" she said fiercely. "You said you were only going to keep a lookout!"

"I just saved all our lives...," said Ron. "Get behind here ­­ behind this bush ­­ I'll explain."

Ron listened to what had just happened with her mouth open yet again.

"Did anyone see you?"

"Yes, haven't you been listening? I saw me but I thought I was my dad!

It's okay!"

"Ron, I can't believe it.... You conjured up a Patronus that drove away all those dementors! That's very, very advanced magic. I knew I could do it this time," said Ron, "because I'd already done it....

Does that make sense?"

"I don't know ­­ Ron, look at Weasley!"

Together they peered around the bush at the other bank. Weasley had regained consciousness. He was conjuring stretchers and lifting the limp forms of Ron, Ron, and Weasley onto them. A fourth stretcher, no doubt bearing Ron, was already floating at his side. Then, wand held out in front of him, he moved them away toward the castle.

"Right, it's nearly time," said Ron tensely, looking at her watch.

"We've got about forty­five minutes until Weasley locks the door to the hospital wing. We've got to rescue Ron and get back into the ward before anybody realizes we're missing.... 11 They waited, watching the moving clouds reflected in the lake, while the bush next to them whispered in the breeze. Ron, bored, was ferreting for worms again.

 "D' you reckon he's up there yet?" said Ron, checking his watch. He looked up at the castle and began counting the windows to the right of the West Tower.

"Look!" Ron whispered. "\Who's that? Someone's coming back out of the castle!"

Ron stared through the darkness. The man was hurrying across the grounds, toward one of the entrances. Something shiny glinted in his belt.

"Weasley!" said Ron. "The executioner! He's gone to get the dementors!

This is it, Ron ­­"

Ron put her hands on Ron's back and Ron gave her a leg up.

Then he placed his foot on one of the lower branches of the bush and climbed up in front of her. He pulled Ron's rope back over his neck and tied it to the other side of his collar like reins.

"Ready?" he whispered to Ron. "YotM better hold on to me ­­ He nudged Ron's sides with his heels.

Ron soared straight into the dark air. Ron gripped his flanks with his knees, feeling the great wings rising powerfully beneath them.

Ron was holding Ron very tight around the waist; he could hear her muttering, "Oh, no ­­ I don't like this oh, I really don't like this ­­"

Ron urged Ron forward. They were gliding quietly toward the upper floors of the castle.... Ron pulled hard on the left­hand side of the rope, and Ron turned. Ron was trying to count the windows flashing past ­­ "Whoa!" he said, pulling backward as hard as he could.

Ron slowed down and they found themselves at a stop, unless you counted the fact that they kept rising up and down several feet as the hippogriff beat his wings to remain airborne.

 "He's there!" Ron said, spotting Ron as they rose up beside the window. He reached out, and as Ron's wings fell, was able to tap sharply on the glass.

Weasley looked up. Ron saw his jaw drop. He leapt from his chair,

hurried to the window and tried to open it, but it was locked.

"Rond back!" Ron called to him, and she took out her wand, still gripping the back of Ron's robes with her left hand.

"Alohomora!"

The window sprang open.

"How ­­ how ­­?" said Weasley weakly, staring at the hippogriff "Get on ­­ there's not much time," said Ron, gripping Ron firmly on either side of his sleek neck to hold him steady. "You've got to get out of here ­the dementors are coming ­­ Weasley's gone to get them."

Weasley placed a hand on either side of the window frame and heaved his head and shoulders out of it. It was very lucky he was so thin. In seconds, he had managed to fling one leg over Ron's back and pull himself onto the hippogriff behind Ron.

"Okay, Ron, up!" said Ron, shaking the rope. "Up to the tower ­­ come on.

The hippogriff gave one sweep of its mighty wings and they were soaring upward again, high as the top of the West Tower. Ron landed with a clatter on the battlements, and Ron and Ron slid off him at once.

"Ron, you'd better go, quick," Ron panted. "They'll reach Weasley's office any moment, they'll find out you're gone."

Ron pawed the ground, tossing his sharp head.

"What happened to the other boy? Ron?" croaked Ron.

"He's going to be okay. He's still out of it, but Ron Weasley says

she'll be able to make him better. Quick ­­ go ­­"

But Weasley was still staring down at Ron.

"How can I ever thank ­­"

"GO!" Ron and Ron shouted together.

Weasley wheeled Ron around, facing the open sky.

"We'll see each other again," he said. "You are ­­ truly your father's son, Ron...."

He squeezed Ron's sides with his heels. Ron and Ron jumped back as the enormous wings rose once more.... The hippogriff took off into the air.... He and his rider became smaller and smaller as Ron gazed after them... then a cloud drifted across the moon.... They were gone.

 CHAPTER TWENTY­TWO OWL POST AGAIN

Ron!"

Ron was tugging at his sleeve, staring at her watch. "We've got exactly ten minutes to get back down to the hospital wing without anybody seeing us ­­ before Weasley locks the door ­­"

"Okay," said Ron, wrenching his gaze from the sky, "let's go...."

They slipped through the doorway behind them and down a tightly spiraling stone staircase. As they reached the bottom of it, they heard voices. They flattened themselves against the wall and listened. It sounded like Weasley and Weasley. They were walking quickly along the corridor at the foot of the staircase.

"... only hope Weasley's not going to make difficulties," Weasley was saying. "The Kiss will be performed immediately?"

 "As soon as Weasley returns with the dementors. This whole Weasley affair has been highly embarrassing. I can't tell you how much I'm looking forward to informing the Daily Prophet that we've got him at last.... I daresay they'll want to interview you, Weasley... and once young Ron's back in his right mind, I expect he'll want to tell the Prophet exactly how you saved him...."

Ron clenched his teeth. He caught a glimpse of Weasley's smirk as he and Weasley passed Ron and Ron's hiding place. Their footsteps died away. Ron and Ron waited a few moments to make sure they'd really gone, then started to run in the opposite direction. Down one staircase,

then another, along a new ,corridor ­­ then they heard a cackling ahead.

"Ron!" Ron muttered, grabbing Ron's wrist. "In here!"

They tore into a deserted classroom to their left just in time. Ron seemed to be bouncing along the corridor in boisterous good spirits,

laughing his head off.

"Oh, he's horrible," whispered Ron, her ear to the door. "I bet he's all excited because the dementors are going to finish off Ron...." She checked her watch. "Three minutes, Ron!"

They waited until Ron's gloating voice had faded into the distance,

then slid back out of the room and broke into a run again.

"Ron ­­ what'll happen ­­ if we don't get back inside before Weasley locks the door?" Ron panted.

I don't want to think about it!" Ron moaned, checking her watch again. "One minute!"

They had reached the end of the corridor with the hospital wing entrance. "Okay ­­ I can hear Weasley," said Ron tensely. "Come on, Ron!"

They crept along the corridor. The door opened. Weasley's back appeared.

"I am going to lock you in," they heard him saying. "it is five minutes

to midnight. Miss Weasley, three turns should do It. Good luck."

Weasley backed out of the room, closed the door, and took out his wand to magically lock it. Panicking, Ron and Ron ran forward.

Weasley looked up, and a wide smile appeared under the long silver mustache. "Well?" he said quietly.

"We did it!" said Ron breathlessly. "Ron has gone, on Ron...."

Weasley beamed at them.

"Well done. I think ­­" He listened intently for any sound within the hospital wing. "Yes, I think you've gone too ­­ get inside ­­ I'll lock you in ­­"

Ron and Ron slipped back inside the dormitory. It was empty except for Ron, who was still lying motionless in the end bed. As the lock clicked behind them, Ron and Ron crept back to their own beds, Ron tucking the Time­Turner back under her robes. A moment later, Ron Weasley came striding back out of her office.

"Did I hear the headmaster leaving? Am I allowed to look after my patients now?"

She was in a very bad mood. Ron and Ron thought it best to accept their chocolate quietly. Ron Weasley stood over them, making sure they ate it. But Ron could hardly swallow. He and Ron were waiting,

listening, their nerves jangling.... And then, as they both took a fourth piece of chocolate from Ron Weasley, they heard a distant roar of fury echoing from somewhere above them....

"What was that?" said Ron Weasley in alarm.

Now they could hear angry voices, growing louder and louder. Ron Weasley was staring at the door.

"Really ­­ they'll wake everybody up! What do they think they're doing?"

Ron was trying to hear what the voices were saying. They were drawing nearer ­­

"He must have Disapparated, Ron. We should have left somebody in the room with him. When this gets out ­­"

"HE DIDN'T DISAPPARATE!" Weasley roared, now very close at hand. "YOU CAN'T APPARATE OR DISAPPARATE INSIDE THIS CASTLE! THIS ­­ HAS ­­ SOMETHING ­­ TO ­­ DO ­­ WITH ­­ Weasley!"

"Ron ­­ be reasonable ­­ Ron has been locked up ­­"

BAM.

The door of the hospital wing burst open.

Weasley, Weasley, and Weasley came striding into the ward. Weasley alone looked calm. Indeed, he looked as though he was quite enjoying himself. Weasley appeared angry. But Weasley was beside himself.

"OUT WITH IT, Weasley!" he bellowed. "WHAT DID YOU DO?"

"Professor Weasley!" shrieked Ron Weasley. "Control yourself!"

"See here, Weasley, be reasonable," said Weasley. "This door's been locked,

we just saw ­­"

"THEY HELPED HIM ESCAPE, I KNOW IT!" Weasley howled, pointing at Ron and Ron. His face was twisted; spit was flying from his mouth.

"Calm down, man!" Weasley barked. "You're talking nonsense!"

"YOU DON'T KNOW Weasley!" shrieked Weasley. "HE DID IT, I KNOW HE DID IT ­­"

"That will do, Ron," said Weasley quietly. "Think about what you are saying. This door has been locked since I left the ward ten minutes ago. Ron Weasley, have these students left their beds?"

 "Of course not!" said Ron Weasley, bristling. "I would have heard them!"

"Well, there you have it, Ron," said Weasley calmly. "Unless you are suggesting that Ron and Ron are able to be in two places at once, I'm afraid I don't see any point in troubling them further."

Weasley stood there, seething, staring from Weasley, who looked thoroughly shocked at his behavior, to Weasley, whose eyes were twinkling behind his glasses. Weasley whirled about, robes swishing behind him, and stormed out of the ward.

"Fellow seems quite unbalanced," said Weasley, staring after him. "I'd watch out for him if I were you, Weasley."

"Oh, he's not unbalanced," said Weasley quietly. "He's just suffered a severe disappointment."

"He's not the only one!" puffed Weasley. "The Daily Prophet's going to have a field day! We had Weasley cornered and he slipped through our fingers yet again! All it needs now is for the story of that hippogriff's escape to get out, and I'll be a laughingstock! Well... I'd better go and notify the Ministry.....

"And the dementors?" said Weasley. "They'll be removed from the school, I trust?"

"Oh yes, they'll have to go," said Weasley, running his fingers distractedly through his hair. "Never dreamed they'd attempt to administer the Kiss on an innocent boy... Completely out of control...

no, I'll have them packed off back to Azkaban tonight.... Perhaps we should think about dragons at the school entrance...."

"Weasley would like that," said Weasley, smiling at Ron and Ron. As he and Weasley left the dormitory, Ron Weasley hurried to the door and locked it again. Muttering angrily to herself, she headed back to her office.

There was a low moan from the other end of the ward. Ron had woken up.

 They could see him sitting up, rubbing his head, looking around.

"What ­­ what happened?" he groaned. "Ron? Why are we in here? Where's Ron? Where's Weasley? What's going on?"

Ron and Ron looked at each other.

"You explain," said Ron, helping himself to some more chocolate.

When Ron, Ron, and Ron left the hospital wing at noon the next day, it was to find an almost deserted castle. The sweltering, heat and the end of the exams meant that everyone was taking full advantage of another Hogsmeade visit. Neither Ron nor Ron felt like going,

however, so they and Ron wandered onto the grounds, still talking about the extraordinary events of the previous night and wondering where Ron and Ron were now. Sitting near the lake, watching the giant squid waving its tentacles lazily above the water, Ron lost the thread of the conversation as he looked across to the opposite bank. The stag had galloped toward him from there just last night....

A shadow fell across them and they looked 'tip to see a very bleary­eyed Weasley, mopping his sweaty face with one of his tablecloth­sized handkerchiefs and beaming down at them.

"Know I shouldn' feel happy, after wha' happened las' night," he said.

"I mean, Weasley escapin' again, an, everythin' ­­ but guess what?"

"What?" they said, pretending to look curious.

"Beaky! He escaped! He's free! Bin celebratin' all night!"

"That's wonderful!" said Ron, giving Ron a reproving look because he looked as though he was close to laughing.

"Yeah... can't've tied him up properly," said Weasley, gazing happily out over the grounds. "I was worried this mornin', mind... thought he mighta met Professor Weasley on the grounds, but Weasley says he never ate anythin' las' night...."

"What?" said Ron quickly.

 "Blimey, haven' yeh heard?" said Weasley, his smile fading a little. He lowered his voice, even though there was nobody in sight. "Er ­­ Weasley told all the Weasleys this mornin'.... Thought everyone'd know by now... Professor Weasley's a werewolf, see. An' he was loose on the grounds las' night.... He's packin' now, o' course.

"He's packing?" said Ron, alarmed. "Why?"

"Leavin', isn' he?" said Weasley, looking surprised that Ron had to ask. "Resigned firs' thing this mornin'. Says he can't risk it happenin again.

Ron scrambled to his feet.

"I'm going to see him," he said to Ron and Ron.

"But if he's resigned ­­"

"­­ doesn't sound like there's anything we can do ­­"

"I don't care. I still want to see him. I'll meet you back here."

Weasley's office door was open. He had already packed most of his things.

The grindylow's empty tank stood next to his battered old suitcase,

which was open and nearly full. Weasley was bending over something on his desk and looked up only when Ron knocked on the door.

"I saw you coming," said Weasley, smiling. He pointed to the parchment he had been poring over. It was the Marauder's Map.

"I just saw Weasley," said Ron. "And he said you'd resigned. It's not true, is it?"

"I'm afraid it is," said Weasley. He started opening his desk drawers and taking out the contents.

"Why?" said Ron. "The Ministry of Magic don't think you were helping Ron, do they?"

 Weasley crossed to the door and closed it behind Ron.

"No. Professor Weasley managed to convince Weasley that I was trying to save your lives." He sighed. "That was the final straw for Ron. I think the loss of the Order of Merlin hit him hard. So he ­­ er ­­ accidentally let slip that I am a werewolf this morning at breakfast."

"You're not leaving just because of that!" said Ron.

Weasley smiled wryly.

"This time tomorrow, the owls will start arriving from parents.... They will not want a werewolf teaching their children, Ron. And after last night, I see their point. I could have bitten any of you.... That must never happen again."

"You're the best Defense Against the Dark Arts­ teacher we've ever had!"

said Ron. "Don't go!"

Weasley shook his head and didn't speak. He carried on emptying his drawers. Then, while Ron was trying to think of a good argument to make him stay, Weasley said, "From what the headmaster told me this morning, you saved a lot of lives last night, Ron. if I'm proud of anything I've done this year, it's how much you've learned.... Tell me about your Patronus."

"How d'you know about that?" said Ron, distracted.

"What else could have driven the dementors back?"

Ron told Weasley what had happened. When he'd finished, Weasley was smiling again.

"Yes, your father was always a stag when he transformed," he said. "You guessed right... that's why we called him Prongs."

Weasley threw his last few books into his case, closed the desk drawers,

and turned to look at Ron.

"Here ­­ I brought this from the Shrieking Shack last night," he said,

 handing Ron back the Invisibility Cloak. "And..." He hesitated, then held out the Marauder's Map too. "I am no longer your teacher, so I don't feel guilty about giving you back this as well. It's no use to me,

and I daresay you, Ron, and Ron will find uses for it."

Ron took the map and grinned.

"You told me Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs would've wanted to lure me out of school... you said they'd have thought it was funny."

"And so we would have," said Weasley, now reaching down to close his case.

"I have no hesitation in saying that Ron would have been highly disappointed if his son had never found any of the secret passages out of the castle."

There was a knock on the door. Ron hastily stuffed the Marauder's Map and the Invisibility Cloak into his pocket.

It was Professor Weasley. He didn't look surprised to see Ron there.

"Your carriage is at the gates, Ron," he said.

"Thank You, Headmaster."

Weasley picked up his old suitcase and the empty grindylow tank.

"Well ­­ good­bye, Ron," he said, smiling. "It has been a real pleasure teaching you. I feel sure we'll meet again sometime.

Headmaster, there is no need to see me to the gates, I can manage...."

Ron had the impression that Weasley wanted to leave as quickly as possible.

"Good­bye, then, Ron," said Weasley soberly. Weasley shifted the grindylow tank slightly so that he and Weasley could shake hands.

Then, with a final nod to Ron and a swift smile, Weasley left the office.

Ron sat down in his vacated chair, staring glumly at the floor. He

heard the door close and looked up. Weasley was still there.

"Why so miserable, Ron?" he said quietly. "You should be very proud of yourself after last night."

"It didn't make any difference," said Ron bitterly. "Weasley got away."

"Didn't make any difference?" said Weasley quietly, "It made all the difference in the world, Ron. You helped uncover the truth. You saved an innocent man from a terrible fate."

Terrible. Something stirred in Ron's memory. Greater and more terrible than ever before... Professor Weasley's prediction!

"Professor Weasley ­­ yesterday, when I was having my Divination exam, Professor Weasley went very ­­ very strange."

"Indeed?" said Weasley. "Er ­­ stranger than usual, you mean?"

"Yes... her voice went all deep and her eyes rolled and she said ... she said Weasley's servant was going to set out to return to him before midnight.... She said the servant would help him come back to power."

Ron stared up at Weasley. "And then she sort of became normal again, and she couldn't remember anything she'd said. Was it ­­ was she making a real prediction?"

Weasley looked mildly impressed.

"Do you know, Ron, I think she might have been." he said thoughtfully.

"Who'd have thought it? That brings her total of real predictions up to two. I should offer her a pay raise...."

"But ­­" Ron looked at him, aghast. How could Weasley take this so calmly?

"But ­­ I stopped Ron and Professor Weasley from killing Weasley!

That makes it my fault if Weasley comes back!"

"It does not," said Weasley quietly. "Hasn't your experience with the

Time­Turner taught you anything, Ron? The consequences of our actions are always so complicated, so diverse, that predicting the future is a very difficult business indeed.... Professor Weasley, bless her, is living proof of that.... You did a very noble thing, in saving Weasley's life."

"But if he helps Weasley back to power "Weasley owes his life to you. You have sent Weasley a deputy who is in your debt.... When one wizard saves another wizard's life, it creates a certain bond between them... and I'm much mistaken if Weasley wants his servant in the debt of Ron Weasley."

"I don't want a connection with Weasley!" said Ron. "He betrayed my parents!"

"This is magic at its deepest, its most impenetrable, Ron. But trust me... the time may come when you will be very glad you saved Weasley's life."

Ron couldn't imagine when that would be. Weasley looked as though he knew what Ron was thinking.

"I knew your father very well, both at Hogwarts and later, Ron," he said gently. "He would have saved Weasley too, I am sure of it."

Ron looked up at him. Weasley wouldn't laugh ­­ he could tell Weasley...

"I thought it was my dad who'd conjured my Patronus. I mean, when I saw myself across the lake ... I thought I was seeing him." "An easy mistake to make," said Weasley softly. "I expect you'll tire of hearing it,

but you do look extraordinarily like Ron. Except for the eyes... you have your mother's eyes.

Ron shook his head.

"It was stupid, thinking it was him," he muttered. "I mean, I knew he was dead."

 "You think the dead we loved ever truly leave us? You think that we don't recall them more clearly than ever in times of great trouble? Your father is alive in you, Ron, and shows himself most plainly when you have need of him. How else could you produce that particular Patronus?

Prongs rode again last night."

It took a moment for Ron to realize what Dumblefore had said.

Last night Ron told me all about how they became Animagi," said Weasley, smiling. "An extraordinary achievement ­­ not least, keeping it quiet from me. And then I remembered the most unusual form your Patronus took, when it charged Mr. Weasley down at your Quidditch match against Weasley. You know, Ron, in a way, you did see your father last night.... You found him inside yourself."

And Weasley left the office, leaving Ron to his very confused thoughts.

Nobody at Hogwarts now knew the truth of what had happened the night that Ron, Ron, and Weasley had vanished except Ron, Ron,

Ron, and Professor Weasley. As the end of term approached, Ron heard many different theories about what had really happened, but none of them came close to the truth.

Weasley was furious about Ron. He was convinced that Weasley had found a way of smuggling the hippogriff to safety, and seemed outraged that he and his father had been outwitted by a gamekeeper. Ron Weasley, meanwhile, had much to say on the subject of Ron's escape.

"If I manage to get into the Ministry, I'll have a lot of proposals to make about Magical Law Enforcement!" he told the only person who would listen ­­ his girlfriend, Ron.

Though the weather was perfect, though the atmosphere was so cheerful, though he knew they had achieved the near impossible in helping Ron to freedom, Ron had never approached the end of a school year in worse spirits.

He certainly wasn't the only one who was sorry to see Professor Weasley

go. The whole of Ron's Defense Against the Dark Arts class was miserable about his resignation.

"Wonder what they'll give us next year?" said Ron Weasley gloomily.

"Maybe a vampire," suggested Ron Ron hopefully.

It wasn't only Professor Weasley's departure that was weighing on Ron's mind. He couldn't help thinking a lot about Professor Weasley's prediction. He kept wondering where Weasley was now, whether he had sought sanctuary with Weasley yet. But the thing that was lowering Ron's spirits most of all was the prospect of returning to the Weasleys. For maybe half an hour, a glorious half hour, he had believed he would be living with Ron from now on... his parents' best friend.... It would have been the next best thing to having his own father back. And while no news of Ron was definitely good news,

because it meant he had successfully gone into hiding, Ron couldn't help feeling miserable when he thought of the home he might have had,

and the fact that it was now impossible.

The exam results came out on the last day of term. Ron, Ron, and Ron had passed every subject. Ron was amazed that he had got through Potions. He had a shrewd suspicion that Weasley might have stepped in to stop Weasley failing him on purpose. Weasley's behavior toward Ron over the past week had been quite alarming. Ron wouldn't have thought it possible that Weasley's dislike for him could increase, but it certainly had. A muscle twitched unpleasantly at the corner of Weasley's thin mouth every time he looked at Ron, and he was constantly flexing his fingers, as though itching to place them around Ron's throat.

Ron had got his top­grade N.E.W.T.s; Ron and Ron had scraped a handful of O.W.L.s each. Weasley House, meanwhile, largely thanks to their spectacular performance in the Quidditch Cup, had won the House championship for the third year running. This meant that the end of term feast took place amid decorations of scarlet and gold, and that the Weasley table was the noisiest of the lot, as everybody celebrated.

Even Ron managed to forget about the journey back to the Weasleys the next day as he ate, drank, talked, and laughed with the rest.

As the Hogwarts Express pulled out of the station the next mornIng,

 Ron gave Ron and Ron some surprising news.

"I went to see Professor Weasley this morning, just before breakfast.

I've decided to drop Muggle Studies."

"But you passed your exam with three hundred and twenty percent!" said Ron.

"I know," sighed Ron, "but I can't stand another year like this one. That Time­Turner, it was driving me mad. I've handed it in. Without Muggle Studies and Divination, I'll be able to have a normal schedule again."

I still can't believe you didn't tell us about it," said Ron grumpily.

"We're supposed to be your friends."

"I promised I wouldn't tell anyone," said Ron severely. She looked around at Ron, who was watching Hogwarts disappear from view behind a mountain. Two whole months before he'd see it again....

"Oh, cheer up, Ron!" said Ron sadly.

"I'm okay," said Ron quickly. "Just thinking about the holidays."

"Yeah, I've been thinking about them too," said Ron. "Ron, you've got to come and stay with us. I'll fix it up with Mum and Dad, then I'll call you. I know how to use a fellytone now ­­"

"A telephone, Ron," said Ron. "Honestly, you should take Muggle Studies next year...."

Ron *ignored her.

"It's the Quidditch World Cup this summer! How about it, Ron? Come and stay, and we'll go and see it! Dad can usually get tickets from work."

This proposal had the effect of cheering Ron up a great deal.

"Yeah... I bet the Weasleys'd be pleased to let me come... especially after what I did to Aunt Ron...."

 Feeling considerably more cheerful, Ron joined Ron and Ron in several games of Exploding Snap, and when the witch with the tea cart arrived, he bought himself a very large lunch, though nothing with chocolate in it.

But it was late in the afternoon before the thing that made him truly happy turned up....

"Ron," said Ron suddenly, peering over his shoulder. "What's that thing outside your window?"

Ron turned to look outside. Something very small and gray was bobbing in and out of sight beyond the glass. He stood up for a better look and saw that it was a tiny owl, carrying a letter that was much too big for it. The owl was so small, in fact, that it kept tumbling over in the air, buffeted this way and that in the train's slipstream. Ron quickly pulled down the window, stretched out his arm, and caught it. It felt like a very fluffy Snitch. He brought it carefully inside. The owl dropped its letter onto Ron's seat and began zooming around their compartment, apparently very pleased with itself for accomplishing its task. Ron clicked her beak with a sort of dignified disapproval.

Ron sat up in his seat, following the owl with his great yellow eyes. Ron, noticing this, snatched the owl safely out of harm's way.

Ron picked up the letter. It was addressed to him. He ripped open the letter, and shouted, "It's from Ron!"

"What?" said Ron and Ron excitedly. "Read it aloud!"

Dear Ron,

I hope this finds you before you reach your aunt and uncle. I don't know whether they're used to owl post.

Ron and I are in hiding. I won't tell you where, in case this owl falls into the wrong hands. I have some doubt about his reliability, but he is the best I could find, and he did seem eager for the job.

I believe the dementors are still searching for me, but they haven't a

hope of finding me here. I am planning to allow some Muggles to glimpse me soon, a long way from Hogwarts, so that the security on the castle will be lifted.

There is something I never got around to telling you during our brief meeting. It was I who sent you the Firebolt ­­ "Ha!" said Ron triumphantly. "See! I told you it was from him!"

"Yes, but he hadn't jinxed it, had he?" said Ron. "Ouch!" The tiny owl,

now hooting happily in his hand, had nibbled one of his fingers in what it seemed to think was an affectionate way.

Ron took the order to the Owl Office for me. I used your name but told them to take the gold from my own Gringotts vault. Please consider it as thirteen birthdays' worth of presents from your godfather.

I would also like to apologize for the fright I think I gave you that night last year when you left your uncle's house. I had only hoped to get a glimpse of you before starting my journey north, but I think the sight of me alarmed you.

I am enclosing something else for you, which I think will make your next year at Hogwarts more enjoyable.

If ever you need me, send word. Your owl will find me.

I'll write again soon.

Ron Ron looked eagerly inside the envelope. There was another piece of parchment in there. He read it through quickly and felt suddenly as warm and contented as though he'd swallowed a bottle of hot butterbeer in one gulp.

I, Ron Weasley, Ron Weasley's godfather, hereby give him permission to visit Hogsmeade on weekends.

 "That'll be good enough for Weasley!" said Ron happily. He looked back at Ron's letter. "Hang on, there's a RS...."

I thought your ftiend Ron might like to keep this owl, as it's my fault he no longer has a rat.

Ron's eyes widened. The minute owl was still hooting excitedly. "Keep him?" he said uncertainly. He looked closely at the owl for a moment; then, to Ron's and Ron's great surprise, he held him out for Ron to sniff.

"What do you reckon?" Ron asked the cat. "Definitely an owl?"

Ron purred.

"That's good enough for me," said Ron happily. "He's mine."

Ron read and reread the letter from Ron all the way back into King's Cross station. It was still clutched tightly in his hand as he,

Ron, and Ron stepped back through the barrier of platform nine an (' three­quarters. Ron spotted Uncle Ron at once. He was standing a good distance from Mr. and Mrs. Weasley, eyeing them suspiciously, and when Mrs. Weasley hugged Ron in greeting, his worst suspicions about them seemed confirmed.

"I'll call about the World Cup!" Ron yelled after Ron as Ron bid him and Ron good­bye, then wheeled the trolley bearing his trunk and Ron's cage toward Uncle Ron, who greeted him in his usual fashion.

"What's that?" he snarled, staring at the envelope Ron was still clutching in his hand. "If it's another form for me to sign, you've got another ­­­"

"It's not," said Ron cheerfully. "It's a letter from my godfather."

"Godfather?" sputtered Uncle Ron. "You haven't got a godfather!"

"Yes, I have," said Ron brightly. "He was my mum and dad's best friend. He's a convicted murderer, but he's broken out of wizard prison and he's on the run. He likes to keep in touch with me, though... keep up with my news... check if I'm happy..."

And, grinning broadly at the look of horror on Uncle Ron's face,

Ron set off toward the station exit, Ron rattling along in front of him, for what looked like a much better summer than the last.

 THE END

 
